search for anything sign in seller handbook latest articles getting started growing your business seller stories site updates march 18, 2020 | 4 minute read 4 ways to optimize your listings for pinterest appeal to social media shoppers with simple considerations to make your listings more pinnable. by etsy staff want to open your own etsy shop? create your shop today! learn more while thinking about taking on another social media channel for marketing can be daunting for any business owner, the audience on pinterest is hard to deny : with over 320 million active monthly users and an average of 14. 2 minutes spent by users per session in 2019, it ’ s a powerful platform when it comes to decision making and planning for buyers. but appealing to pinterest users doesn ’ t mean you have to become a fully - fledged influencer. one of the great things about the platform is how it ’ s used for planning. potential buyers regularly pin items while they ’ re browsing on sites across the web, including etsy, adding to their own boards for inspiration or making plans to purchase at a later date. those pins can be re - pinned by other pinterest users, resulting in increased exposure for your listings. by taking into consideration these types of shoppers when selecting your listing photos, you can ensure your listings are primed for pinning. read on for tips provided by etsy ' s social media team. 1. think mobile first a whopping 80 % of pinterest users access the platform through their mobile devices, and those visits via smaller screens make mobile - friendly product photos even more important. when you ’ re taking or uploading photos to your listings, review them on your phone to make sure that if someone comes upon your item listing on pinterest, the image will be clear, crisp, and bright. shooting in natural light is one popular way to capture well - lit photos. if that ' s not possible, just be sure your photos are bright enough to see your items — especially for mobile visitors who might have their screen ' s brightness turned down. we ' ve also found that for standalone item photos, light or white backgrounds perform well on our pinterest channels. for more guidance, check out tips for taking engaging social media photos. if you sell artwork, include some shots of the just the piece itself, like this example from lily & val. 2. experiment with vertical photos while some social networks praise the square crop, pinterest loves a vertical photo! aim to include at least one or two vertical photos in your listings. you can find a variety of vertical examples from other sellers on etsy ' s pinterest page. 3. include variation photos when we ’ re looking for photos to share on our pinterest page, we often look for items that have variation photos included in the listings. do you make initial necklaces? try to highlight a few different letters in your listing photo like this post : in this popular pin from etsy ' s pinterest page, variation photos help showcase the customization options available from evren ' s necklace line. do you sell jewelry organizers? post a couple photos of what the item looks like closed and open like in this example : on pinterest, a vertical collage helps demonstrate the functionality of this travel jewelry organizer by cut design. 4. incorporate lifestyle photos buyers like to see how items will potentially look in their spaces, this is a great opportunity to show off your styling skills and post some full room shots — or better yet — ask your buyers to send you some photos of what your items look like in their spaces, and include those in your listing photos! this shot from kindred quilting co is a great example of a lifestyle shot we ’ ve seen perform well on etsy ' s social media channels : photo by kindred quilting co. for lifestyle photos, always keep the focus of the photo on the item you ’ re looking to highlight or showcase. it ' s important to find a balance between setting a scene and making it clear what you ' re actually selling. for more social media tips, check out our ultimate guide to social media marketing. follow etsy success on instagram and facebook for more advice and inspiration on running an etsy shop. words by etsy staff latest articles the ultimate guide to etsy policy learn why policies are created, what considerations to keep in mind to avoid listing removals, and how we ’ re working to increase transparency. read now how we create policies at etsy get a behind - the - scenes look at how we develop and enforce our house rules. read now 4 policy best practices when listing items on etsy understand what to keep in mind when listing your items, along with actions you can take to avoid policy missteps. read now 7 essentials for exceptional customer service communication is a vital skill for any online business. get tips from an etsy expert and experienced sellers, plus customizable message reply templates. read now get free online marketing tips and resources delivered directly to your inbox you @ email. com subscribe yes! send me exclusive offers, unique gift ideas, and personalized tips for shopping and selling on etsy. enter your email subscribe etsy is powered by 100 % renewable electricity. shop sell about help gift cards sell on etsy etsy, inc. help center etsy registry teams policies privacy settings sitemap forums investors etsy blog affiliates & creators careers etsy united kingdom press etsy germany impact etsy canada download the etsy app united states | english ( us ) | $ ( usd ) © 2025 etsy, inc. terms of use privacy interest - based ads local shops regions