search for anything sign in seller handbook latest articles getting started growing your business seller stories site updates 5 minute read 7 common questions about etsy ads insights to help you understand how etsy ads work, including how your budget is used, and when, where, and what your ads might look like. by etsy staff want to open your own etsy shop? create your shop today! learn more etsy ads make your listings more prominent for millions of buyers searching for products on the site. whether you ’ re just getting started or looking to refine your existing campaign, in this article you ’ ll find answers to frequently asked questions shared by the etsy ads team. 1. how is my etsy ads budget used? when you set a daily budget for etsy ads, it ’ s the maximum amount of money you could spend a day on advertising. keep in mind, you might not use your full daily budget, since you ’ re charged only when a buyer clicks on your ad to land on your listings or shop. your budget does not get used if a buyer sees your ad and does not click on it. we ’ ll never go over your daily budget. once your budget is fully used up we ’ ll stop showing your ads for the day. 2. where are my advertised listings shown? your ads can be shown on search and browsing pages across etsy. com and the buy on etsy mobile application ( including etsy search, relevant category and market pages, and similar listings ). 3. what do my advertised listing look like? on etsy your ads look similar to the other results on search and other pages on etsy. we may show your shop name and your listing ’ s main photo, title, star rating, price, and sale information as well as any relevant free shipping information. that ’ s why it ’ s important to make sure your listings are optimized ( clear photography, descriptions, and titles ) when running ads on etsy. ads are distinguished from organic search results using signals such as a visual “ ad ” badge or “ ad by ” text before your shop name. 4. when and how are my advertised listings shown? the etsy ads algorithm can place listings in the search queries and spots that drive traffic to your shop and have the highest potential to result in a sale. we place ads in the places that we think will drive the best performance for sellers. we look at the following input to determine which ads are shown in each search query and page : buyer contextual inputs : things like what a buyer is searching for, as well as when and how they ’ re searching can give us signals on how to rank and place listings. your listing ’ s tags, title, and attributes are really important here because it lets us match the best products with the right buyers. read keywords 101 for tips on refining these terms. likelihood of the purchase : based on data about your shop and listings ( like clickthrough rate and price ), we can predict how likely a buyer is to make a purchase after clicking on a listing. 5. what determines my cost per click? etsy sets a bid amount for each listing based on the expected sales from an ad click. the expected sales from an ad click is determined by the likelihood of an individual buyer to purchase the listing and the price of the listing. for example : if the etsy ads algorithm determines a buyer is very likely to purchase an expensive listing, the bid will be higher to ensure your ad shows. 6. will my advertised listings be promoted to everyone, or only shoppers in my own country? we only show your advertised listings to buyers in countries that you ship to. you can update your shipping preferences in your shipping profiles. 7. why am i seeing a drop in views or sales? if views have dropped for your advertised listings, it may be because there are fewer buyers searching for your products, or more sellers competing for the same buyers. a decrease in views or sales could also be due to seasonality, since buyer shopping trends evolve throughout the year. check in stats to see if the trends carry over to your overall shop traffic. if your advertised listing views have stayed the same but your clicks have dropped, there may be room to further optimize your listings. your listing ’ s first photo, the image displayed in search results, is crucial when it comes to inspiring shoppers to click and increasing your conversion rate. the first photo should clearly show the item that ’ s for sale and be eye - catching enough that buyers want to take a closer look. it ’ s also smart to check that you ’ re maximizing your use of accurate tags and attributes — they ’ re integral in determining where your ads will show up. read creating listings that convert for more tips. return to the ultimate guide to advertising words by etsy staff latest articles the ultimate guide to etsy policy learn why policies are created, what considerations to keep in mind to avoid listing removals, and how we ’ re working to increase transparency. read now how we create policies at etsy get a behind - the - scenes look at how we develop and enforce our house rules. read now 4 policy best practices when listing items on etsy understand what to keep in mind when listing your items, along with actions you can take to avoid policy missteps. read now 7 essentials for exceptional customer service communication is a vital skill for any online business. get tips from an etsy expert and experienced sellers, plus customizable message reply templates. read now get free online marketing tips and resources delivered directly to your inbox you @ email. com subscribe yes! send me exclusive offers, unique gift ideas, and personalized tips for shopping and selling on etsy. enter your email subscribe etsy is powered by 100 % renewable electricity. shop sell about help gift cards sell on etsy etsy, inc. help center etsy registry teams policies privacy settings sitemap forums investors etsy blog affiliates & creators careers etsy united kingdom press etsy germany impact etsy canada download the etsy app united states | english ( us ) | $ ( usd ) © 2025 etsy, inc. terms of use privacy interest - based ads local shops regions