amazon seller registration guide a mazo n c onfid en tia l introduction • this document is designed to reduce the inconvenience in the process of registering and creating your amazon account. in addition, this guide procedure is based on registration of a professional seller account. • please note that because amazon constantly updates the site environment for a better seller experience, you may see a slightly different screen than the guide image used in this article. however, because the overall procedure is similar, you can get sufficient help from this material. • please note that once completed, each step in the registration process is irreversible and it will no longer be possible to return to the previous step to modify the information. carefully check the information you fill in and proceed to the next step only once you are sure everything is entered correctly. • amazon global selling sea offers a variety of guide emails to sellers who have registered their account. therefore, we encourage you to periodically check the email account you used for your amazon account, and make sure that any related emails from amazon are not classified as spam. • in addition to registering your account, more information about amazon global selling can be found on the website. directory click onto the section where you wish to navigate to types of amazon selling account registering an amazon selling account seller identification verification ( siv ) guide in - person verification ( ipv ) guide amazon postcard address verification ( otp ) amazon post seller identity verification amazon seller performance review ( spr ) internal escalation faq types of amazon selling account 2 types of amazon selling account for more info on the monthly subscription fee and refund for professional selling plan, please refer to this faq process of account registration submit the correct documents to submit additional documents to!! verify your identity in this process verify your identity go through seller key in the postcard go through seller identification otp sent to your performance review ( spr ) if verification ( siv ) address your account gets suspended register for your in - person update info selling account with verification ( ipv ) on seller amazon video call central schedule a video call with an upon passing siv, access your account! amazon personnel on your to complete other necessary information :! registration page ( seller central ) tax interview, deposit method, return method, update business info registering an amazon selling account account registration process step 1 : instructions select the country in which your business 1 is located 1 to contact amazon seller support team for any questions regarding the siv procedure, 2 click on “ get support ” at the bottom of the page 2 account registration process step 2 : instructions select your business type 1 ( i. e, state - owned, publicly - owned, privately - owned, charity or none, i am an individual ) 1 key in the business name you used to 2 2 register with your government, word - for - word account registration process step 2 : instructions if you have selected “ none, i am an 1 individual ”, you will be prompted to enter your first, middle and last name 1 account registration process step 3 : instructions ensure that the information entered 1 reflects your personal documents ( passport / driver ’ s license ) 1 make sure the address you entered is accurate to receive a postcard otp from 2 amazon. changes made after successful 2 registering may result in spr being triggered note you will not be able to change your particulars after moving on to the next step. you will only be able to do so when you have successfully completed registration. account registration process step 4 : instructions enter your credit card details. the credit card 1 holder does not need to be the same person as the account registrant. ensure that the default address information is 1 2 the same as the credit card billing address. if not, add a new address. 2 if the credit card billing address is not the same as the billing! address you entered at the bank, account registration may fail account registration process step 4 : instructions 1 enter your store and product information.? to understand more about upc / eans, click here 1 if you click ‘ yes ’ or ‘ some of them ’ for this question, you ’ ll be asked : do you own a 2 government - registered trademark for the branded products you want to sell on amazon? 2 amazon seller identity verification ( siv ) guide prepare the necessary documents for siv 1. identity proof, color scanned copy of one of the following : • passport ( including the page with your signature ). see valid examples here • driver ’ s license 2. additional proof, color scanned copy of one of the following : • bank / credit card / payoneer statement issued within the past 90 days siv process instructions upload a government - issued identity document step 5 : 1 you selected for verification things to take note : • the document must not be expired. • the full name of the document should match the full name on your registration. • for passport : please ensure that the passport has the bearer ’ s signature. • for driver ’ s license or identity card ( if applicable ), both sides of the card should be uploaded. 1 best practices : • scan the original document in color or take a picture using your mobile device. black and white copies are not accepted. • the document image must be high quality, colored and unobstructed. examples of passport screenshots singapore : * page with signature should be included examples of passport screenshots malaysia : signature examples of passport screenshots philippines : * for new ph passport holders, please make sure to sign this section examples of passport screenshots indonesia : signature examples of passport screenshots cambodia : signature siv process instructions step 6 : upload additional document ( bank account / credit card 1 / payoneer statement ) things to take note : • the name of the company or point of contact mentioned on the statement should either match the business name or point of contact name provided during registration. • hide the account number and monetary amounts, but the rest of the document must be visible. • document must be issued within the past 180 days. • your document must be in one of the following languages : chinese, english, french, german, italian, japanese, portuguese, or spanish. if it is not in one of these languages, provide a notarized translation of your document. 1 • accepted formats are *. png, *. tiff, *. tif, *. jpg, *. jpeg, and *. pdf • e - statements are accepted, but have to be unaltered ( eg : not cropped ) siv documents do ’ s and don ’ ts scan the original document in color or take a picture using your mobile device. black and white copies are not accepted. the document image must be high quality, colored and unobstructed passport has bearer ’ s signature documents are in supported languages : chinese, english, french, german, italian, japanese, portuguese, turkish or spanish name of company or point of contact mentioned on the statement should either match the business name or point of contact name provided during registration document ( bank / credit card statement ) must be issued within the past 180 days document must not be expired siv status status 1 : siv appeal rejection status 2 : siv failed this means that all the documents you have submitted this means that you have failed siv as a result of too does not fit in all requirements many resubmission attempts with documents that do not fit in all requirements. you will need to : you will need to : • check your submitted documents and resubmit the • restart account registration with a different email address accurate documents that meet all requirements on your registration page note before you resubmit the documents, please double check that your documents fit all requirements in the siv guide. too many resubmissions with the same invalid documents will result in the failure of siv. when that happens, you will not be allowed to resubmit your documents and have to restart your registration process with a new email address amazon in - person verification ( ipv ) guide ipv process step 1 : instructions once your documents are successfully 1 uploaded, you will be prompted to schedule a video call to complete your verification. 1 ipv process step 2 : instructions select a date and time to schedule an 1 appointment. select your preferred language for the video 2 call. make sure it is a language you are 1 comfortable with. 2 ipv process step 3 : instructions ensure that you are on time for the appointment. log into your registration page 5 1 minutes before the scheduled time. avoid missing your scheduled appointment. 2 if you are unable to make it at the scheduled 1 timing, please reschedule it. 2 ipv process what to prepare for in - person - verification instructions ensure that you have the physical / original documents that you have uploaded during registration with you ( i. e. passport / driver ’ s license / identity card / bank statement etc ) if you have submitted e - statements, you do not need to print out a physical copy. just an e - copy will do. you can show it via an alternative screen ( eg : your phone ) ipv process what to prepare for in - person - verification instructions join the call on time from a quiet place and ensure that your internet bandwidth is adequate. you can join the video call either on your computer or phone. it should have a front - facing camera and microphone. you are advised to join the video call using safari or google chrome browser for the best experience if you require translation during the call, you may have an interpreter with you ipv process what happens after the call • amazon will review your case internally and may reach out to you for further clarification within 2 business days ( if needed ) • if you missed your original appointment and did not attend, you will receive a prompt when you open seller central. please reschedule and be sure to be on time for the new appointment amazon postcard address verification ( otp ) address verification process what to expect for otp procedure instructions you can track the status and the expected date of 1 delivery of your postcard here once you have received the postcard, key in the 2 code into the field 1 2 address verification process what to take note of for otp procedure instructions please do not key in false otps. you will only 1 have 3 tries to key in the correct otp. once you ’ ve exhausted your 3 tries, you will not be able! to proceed with registration. you will need to register with a new email address in order to sell on amazon 1 amazon post seller identity verification post seller identity verification update and complete your registration instructions upon passing siv, you will be able to access seller central. you will see notifications on the 1 1 home page prompting you to take action.. it is important to complete all the actions prompted before you! begin listing your products on amazon post seller identity verification update deposit method instructions assign the deposit method to the marketplace 1 1 you would like to sell on fill in the details of the bank account which you 2 would like to receive your disbursement 2. post seller identity verification update return address instructions edit your return address if it is different than 1 your business address 1 you may have different return address for. 2 each of your marketplace 2. post seller identity verification update emergency contact instructions check your emergency contact and update if 1 it ' s different from the contact entered during registration 1. post seller identity verification update tax information instructions update your tax identity information by answering all questions in the tax interview. 1 remember to provide your e - signature for faster processing. if you did not complete this step, customers will not be able! to see any of the products you list 1. amazon seller performance review ( spr ) prepare the necessary documents for spr 1. utility bill, color scanned copy of one of the following : • piped or natural gas, electricity, piped water, telephone ( telco ) or internet service bill with name and address visible 2. business license ( if applicable ) common triggers for seller performance review you may need to go through spr if you : reactivate a dormant amazon selling account upgrade your selling plan ( i. e. individual to professional selling plan ) change the address you had registered with amazon initially change your bank account details * above reasons are not exhaustible seller performance review receiving spr notification instructions you will see a notification alert that says your 1 account has been deactivated in your seller central home page. upon clicking into the alert, you will be 1 2 redirected to your “ account health ” page. click into the “ view appeal ” button to submit the documents required ( see next page ). 2. seller performance review submitting spr documents instructions 1 once you click into the “ view appeal ” button, 1 you will be redirected to the submission page. click into the “ performance notifications ” link. ( in blue ) for more information on the documents you are required to submit. 2 alternatively, you can access the 2 “ performance ” tab, then click into “ performance notifications ” in the drop down selection.. seller performance review submitting spr documents instructions click into the notification with the “ view 1 appeal ” button in the “ actions ” column. 1 seller performance review submitting spr documents instructions read the performance notification carefully 1 for all the documents amazon requires you to submit and follow the instructions closely 1 seller performance review utility bill submission specifications name and address must match exactly with the name and address provided during account registration. please provide a utility bill associated to the address provided in seller central, even if the bill is not under your name.! you would have to prove you are operating from that address and / or the relationship with the person stated on the bill. water, electricity, gas, telephone ( telco ) or internet bill issued by the utility company. if your documents are issued in languages other than english, chinese, french, german, italian, japanese, portuguese or spanish, please translate and notarize before submitting it must be issued within the past 90 days submit all pages of the utility bill, and it should have your name and address clearly visible colored and scanned, high quality and unobstructed images of all elements in the utility bill seller performance review documents to verify relationships if your utility bill is under your … submit : submit : - landlord ’ s passport details - parents ’ passport details - landlord - tenant agreement - birth certificate parents ’ name landlord ’ s name submit : submit : - spouse ’ s passport details - business license - marriage certificate corporation ’ s spouse ’ s name name seller performance review things to avoid for successful review repeatedly submitting documents before amazon has sufficient time to review your appeal! please give 5 business days for amazon to review your appeal submitting documents that are incomplete, illegible, tampered with, marked, or taken as a screenshot submitting an outdated, expired or invalid file type repeatedly submitting inaccurate documents ( eg : submitting passport when utility bill is needed ) note after you submit your appeal, you will normally receive a response to the first email within two business days. you should only resubmit the documents if you did not receive a response for more than 5 business days seller performance review common mistakes made by sellers sending in apartment bill or tv bill only electricity, water, gas, telephone ( telco ) and internet bill are accepted utility bill was issued more than 90 days ago utility bill must be issued within the past 90 days only submit the first page instead of all pages of the utility bill utility bill must include all pages name and address on utility bill does not match word - for - word with the ones on seller central name and address on utility bill should match exactly with the details on seller central seller performance review video verification after account suspension instructions you may be asked to go through video 1 1 verification as part of the spr process. you will see a performance notification as shown.. 2 click into the link to schedule a video 2 interview within 7 days of receiving it.! failure to do so will render you ineligible to sell on amazon internal escalations escalations if you still encounter issues with siv and spr after following all steps in this guide, please reach out to us via this form. before you submit the form, ensure that : documents must meet all requirements highlighted you must have submitted two valid appeals via seller central appeals that do not fulfil all the above criteria will be deprioritized. faq faq 1. what if my driver ’ s license does not have an expiry date? please enter a dummy date 3 months from the date of application. 2. i do not have a credit card, can i still register an amazon selling account? unfortunately, you will need to have a credit card to sell on amazon. 3. i do not wish to pay for the professional selling subscription fee. what can i do? you will need to downgrade your account to an individual subscription plan. ( you will only be able to do so after successful registration ) 4. in which countries is the amazon global selling program currently available? currently, it is available in us, canada, mexico, uk, germany, france, italy, spain, the netherlands, sweden, poland, japan, australia, india, uae, saudi arabia and singapore. 5. do i need to create multiple amazon accounts if i want to sell if different marketplaces? no, you do not. global registration allows you to create amazon selling accounts in multiple amazon stores worldwide through one registration application. refer to this article for more details. 6. do i need to make sure that the address on my bank account statement is the same as the address i registered with amazon? the address on statement and on your registered selling account does not have to match, however, we do check if the country for both documents match. faq 7. can i change my display name ( store name ) after registration? yes, you can. go to “ settings ” - > “ account info ” in seller central and provide a new seller display name. 8. can i provide another credit card after opening an account? you can provide a new credit card at any time through your seller account information page. 9. during siv process, i submitted real and valid documents but it never passed. what should i do? first, confirm through performance notifications that the documents you submitted are required. also, please take note of any emails from amazon sent to you. an explanation as to the reason for the rejection will be sent to your registered email address. 10. what should i do if i encounter a system error and cannot submit materials or move to the next step? you can click on the “ get support ” button at the bottom of the registration page. you should include a detailed description of the problem you are experiencing and confirm your email address and phone number so that amazon can contact you. 11. can i take a break and complete the registration later? yes, you can. simply log in with the email address and password you entered when you created your account to continue. 12. i accidentally signed up for an account and don ’ t need my account anymore. how do i close my account? contact seller partner support to close your account. go to “ help ” - > left panel “ contact seller partner support ” faq 13. if my business license address is different from my actual office address, which one should i fill in? fill in an address for which you can provide utility bills for water, electricity, coal / natural gas, or internet service. make sure that the address you provided allows you to receive an otp from amazon. 14. i have successfully appealed. will i be reviewed again during when selling my products? during the course of your business operations, your account may be subject to review based on your performance. 15. when filing an appeal, are the materials i need to prepare the same for each marketplace? amazon europe has a different page for filing your utility bills for appeal, but the process is simple and you do not need to prepare additional documents. for other marketplaces, follow the instructions on “ performance notifications ” and “ account health ” page in seller central when preparing materials. 16. how long does the video verification interview last? video verification usually lasts about 30 minutes 17. what if i don ' t have time at the available video verification time slots? if there is no suitable time option available at the time of booking, log in to the registration interface after 2 - 3 days to check. amazon regularly adjusts appointment scheduling times.