search for anything sign in seller handbook latest articles getting started growing your business seller stories site updates 9 minute read checklist : optimizing your listings for gifting on etsy learn how to get your shop into top shape and appeal to gift shoppers with this handy checklist. by katy svehaug want to open your own etsy shop? create your shop today! learn more when shoppers browse etsy, they ’ re often in search of something truly unique to celebrate a special occasion. from birthdays and anniversaries to weddings and holidays, tailoring your listings to cater to a range of relevant special occasions can help you tap into a wider audience and even increase your browser - to - buyer conversion rate. use this checklist to help you optimize your etsy shop and capture the attention of gift - seekers. getting found 1. maximize your listing tags : each tag you add to a listing is an opportunity for it to appear in a shopper ’ s search. unused tags are missed opportunities, which is why you should add 13 tags to all of your listings. your tags should be multi - word phrases and use natural - sounding language. inspire shoppers with keywords like “ gift for dog mom, " " boyfriend birthday, ” “ teacher appreciation, ” or “ gifts under $ 20 ” in your titles and tags. 2. streamline your listing titles : your title should make it easy for shoppers to quickly see what you ’ re selling and what makes it unique. shoppers only see the first few words of your title when they ’ re looking at search results, so make sure you ’ re using that space to describe what your item is. it ’ s important to make sure that you ’ re accurately describing your products in the listings or other offerings. using irrelevant keywords on your site in the hopes of appearing in more searches, known as “ keyword stuffing, ” can actually hurt your efforts to boost your search ranking. 3. refresh your listing descriptions : your listing descriptions can help entice, inform, and engage potential buyers. do they lead with a few sentences that naturally incorporate a few relevant keywords? is the description easy to read and understand? are key details easy to find and listed clearly? think about your descriptions as a way to answer your buyer ’ s questions, prioritizing important information that will help buyers best understand your product. does it solve a problem or appeal to a specific audience? use this space to engage your target market. for more tips on optimizing your tags, titles, and listing descriptions, read keywords 101. photography 1. choose an eye - catching first listing photo : your listing ’ s first photo, the image displayed in search results, is crucial when it comes to inspiring shoppers to click and increasing your conversion rate. the first photo should clearly show the item that ’ s for sale and be eye - catching enough that buyers want to take a closer look. 2. show off your products by adding listing videos : product videos can inspire, clarify, and contextualize your items in the two - dimensional world of online shopping. all that extra info can help boost buyers ’ confidence. add a listing video. 3. use all 10 photo slots : while the first photo is what shoppers see in search results, using all 10 photos gives buyers more information about your item and may increase your conversion rate. that ’ s because each additional image you add gives shoppers more information about your product, how big it is, and how it ’ s used. use simple backgrounds and staging that illustrate the story behind your product. staging your products in context can help gifting or registry shoppers imagine the impact your product will have in the recipient ’ s daily life. if you offer gift - wrapping or branded packaging, be sure to include a shot to incentivize one - stop shoppers. check out 7 essential types of listing photos for inspiration. branding and customer service 1. add an about section : adding an about section gives shoppers a behind - the - scenes look at you and your etsy shop. an informative and captivating about section can help establish your brand, build buyer loyalty, and spark unexpected opportunities — including press coverage, collaborations, and new opportunities. 2. set clear return policies for each listing : making it clear which items can be returned creates a better experience for buyers, especially when they ’ re buying for a gift recipient. etsy ’ s tools make it easy to customize your return policy for your unique business needs. you can create one return policy and apply it to all ( or just some ) of your listings, or create a different return policy for each listing. 3. personalize your packaging : how you package your items is an extension of your brand that can leave a lasting impact. read leaving your mark with packaging and promotional materials for inspiration. 4. turn on gift wrap : having gifts arrive already wrapped goes a long way ( especially when it means they can ship them straight to recipients ). once enabled, shoppers will be able to see that you offer gift wrap on each listing in your shop and get a visual preview of what their gifts will look like. turn on gift wrap in your shop. 5. with etsy ’ s gift teaser, buyers can send a special message, tracking info, and the option to share a sneak peek of the gift that ’ s on its way. you don ’ t need to do anything for buyers to be able to send a gift teaser — they have the option when they mark the item as a gift. additionally, if you enable gift messages for your shop, the buyer can add a gift message to be included on the gift packing slip — all you need to do is print it out and include it in your package! turn on gift messages. 6. showcase your customer service : shoppers can also see your shop ’ s review star average when browsing search results. a high average will help to build trust, and could encourage some buyers to take a closer look at your item. for tips on encouraging and receiving positive reviews read 5 ways to get great reviews on the seller handbook. shipping 1. ship globally to grow your buyer base : offering international shipping is a great way to open yourself up to a huge client base. because most buyers only see items that ship to their country while searching on etsy, you ' ll allow them to find you by offering international shipping. an easy way to set up international shipping is through using shipping profiles, which allow you to update multiple listings quickly with similar shipping costs. once you set up a worldwide shipping profile, you can update all applicable listings by using quick edit. 2. add shipping details to show shoppers an estimated delivery date : add a zip code, shipping service, and processing time to each of your shipping profiles or listings ( or review the details you ’ ve already added to be sure they ’ re up to date ) — we use these details to give shoppers an estimated delivery date so they feel confident knowing when their order will arrive. review your shipping details or learn more about estimated delivery dates. 3. update your processing times to help your listings stand out : reflect how much time you need to make the item, pack it up, and hand it off to the carrier before it ships. if you have items ready to ship, let shoppers know by setting a shorter processing time. update your processing times. 4. offer shipping upgrades for last - minute shoppers : offering shipping upgrades gives your customers the option to pay for expedited shipping – perfect for all those last minute gifts. learn more about offering upgrades or turn them on now. pricing 1. understand the market : shoppers compare prices when looking at search results, so your listing price can also affect whether or not a buyer clicks on your listing, and ultimately, whether they convert into a sale. shoppers may have a specific price point in mind before they even start their search, so market research can be helpful in finding your pricing sweet spot. use the worksheet in how to price for profit, conversion, and growth for tips on refining your pricing strategy to achieve your goals. 2. diversify your price points : as you expand your inventory over time, be sure to list items across price points to reach shoppers no matter their budget. read how to increase your revenue with tiered product offerings to learn more. 3. consider discounting tools : discounts, coupons, and other kinds of special offers can help you catch shoppers ’ attention, clear out unsold inventory ahead of a new season, and encourage shoppers to keep coming back with a thank you coupon. check out how 4 successful shops use discounting effectively for more inspiration. note : as an etsy seller, pricing is at your sole discretion. this means that you are responsible for making your own pricing decisions and are free to set prices as you wish. that said, remember there are also legal considerations to be aware of around pricing and discounting. sellers cannot mislead consumers on discounted prices. the original price must be a true price that was in practice for a substantial amount of time, so, for example, you can ’ t artificially increase a price and cut it down just to make it look like you ’ re running a sale. words by katy svehaug katy svehaug is a senior content strategist at etsy. latest articles the ultimate guide to etsy policy learn why policies are created, what considerations to keep in mind to avoid listing removals, and how we ’ re working to increase transparency. read now how we create policies at etsy get a behind - the - scenes look at how we develop and enforce our house rules. read now 4 policy best practices when listing items on etsy understand what to keep in mind when listing your items, along with actions you can take to avoid policy missteps. read now 7 essentials for exceptional customer service communication is a vital skill for any online business. get tips from an etsy expert and experienced sellers, plus customizable message reply templates. read now get free online marketing tips and resources delivered directly to your inbox you @ email. com subscribe yes! send me exclusive offers, unique gift ideas, and personalized tips for shopping and selling on etsy. enter your email subscribe etsy is powered by 100 % renewable electricity. shop sell about help gift cards sell on etsy etsy, inc. help center etsy registry teams policies privacy settings sitemap forums investors etsy blog affiliates & creators careers etsy united kingdom press etsy germany impact etsy canada download the etsy app united states | english ( us ) | $ ( usd ) © 2025 etsy, inc. terms of use privacy interest - based ads local shops regions