search for anything sign in seller handbook latest articles getting started growing your business seller stories site updates august 24, 2021 | 5 minute read getting started with etsy ads your guide to advertising on etsy, from setting a budget to what you can expect in the first month of your campaign. by etsy staff want to open your own etsy shop? create your shop today! learn more etsy ads make your listings more prominent for millions of buyers searching for products on the site. you set a daily budget, let your campaign run, and we ’ ll continually optimize how your budget is spent over time to boost your exposure in etsy search results. read on for an overview of how to get started, from setting a budget and selecting which listings to optimize to knowing what to expect in the first 30 days. set your budget and start your campaign the budget and length of your campaign are important factors in gathering performance data that accurately represents how shoppers engage with your etsy ads campaign. to get the most from your test, we recommend setting a minimum daily budget of at least $ 3 - 5. when you first start running a campaign, we also recommend promoting all of your active listings. this approach helps provide the responsive etsy ads algorithm with the most accurate data on how shoppers are engaging with your shop. if you have a limited budget or a large shop inventory that would spread your budget too thin to provide conclusive performance results, consider these 3 strategies for deciding which listings to promote for alternatives. what to expect from your campaign in the first 30 days over the first few weeks your etsy ads are running, we ’ re continually optimizing your campaign to get the most visits to your shop possible for your budget. letting your campaign run for at least 30 days provides enough time for the etsy ads tool to collect data and optimize based on how each ad placement performs. phase one : you ’ ve set your advertising goal and set a budget that can run for at least 30 days. over the first few weeks of your campaign, your ads are starting to connect you with more motivated shoppers searching for keywords that match your listings. when they click ( or don ’ t ), that gives us more information about which of your listings do best for that search. here ’ s an overview of what the optimizations happening look like : first, we look for trends across etsy to see what ’ s working for other sellers like you. all of those data insights help us decide when to show your ads so you reach just the right shoppers. we keep track of when shoppers click ( or don ’ t ) on one of your ads and what they searched for. we switch things up to see what works for you. making small tweaks all the time means we can quickly optimize your campaign so you get even more traffic. don ’ t make any adjustments for at least 30 days — we use that time to identify trends in your traffic to get you more visits for your budget. if you make changes to your campaign during that time, we may need more time to learn what works for you. phase two : we ’ re working to optimize your campaign, and you may be seeing more clicks to your ads. if you ’ re not, don ’ t worry! it can take a few weeks to get going. if you ’ re hoping to drive more clicks and sales through your ads, think about the factors in your listings that might influence a buyer ’ s perception. and remember, shoppers don ’ t always make a purchase the first time they see an ad. they ’ ll often come back when they ’ re ready to make a purchase. if a shopper makes a purchase within 30 days of clicking on one of your ads, we ’ ll count it as a sale from your ad campaign. you can follow along with impressions, clicks, and orders related to your advertising campaign in the etsy ads dashboard. phase three : your etsy ads campaign is continuing to optimize automatically. as soon as your advertised listings start getting impressions, you can use etsy ads search data to hone your performance. in the dashboard, review the most popular listings and keywords for items within your campaign. can you add more inventory to your shop that ’ s similar to the popular items? have you added all of the high - performing keywords to other relevant listings? phase four : once your campaign has run for at least 30 days, it ’ s time to take an in - depth look at how your ads performed. the data available in your etsy ads dashboard can help inform which listings you continue to promote, what search terms convert best for your shop, and establish a revenue baseline that informs your advertising budget. find out more about measuring the results of your campaign in understanding your ad performance. by giving your campaign time to optimize and taking time to review the results after 30 days, you can make smarter decisions about how you advertise your listings to reach more buyers. return to the ultimate guide to advertising if you have feedback about etsy ads, let us know. etsy is here for you when you need us. find live 24 / 7 support in the help center, or for some sellers, right in shop manager. words by etsy staff latest articles the ultimate guide to etsy policy learn why policies are created, what considerations to keep in mind to avoid listing removals, and how we ’ re working to increase transparency. read now how we create policies at etsy get a behind - the - scenes look at how we develop and enforce our house rules. read now 4 policy best practices when listing items on etsy understand what to keep in mind when listing your items, along with actions you can take to avoid policy missteps. read now 7 essentials for exceptional customer service communication is a vital skill for any online business. get tips from an etsy expert and experienced sellers, plus customizable message reply templates. read now get free online marketing tips and resources delivered directly to your inbox you @ email. com subscribe yes! send me exclusive offers, unique gift ideas, and personalized tips for shopping and selling on etsy. enter your email subscribe etsy is powered by 100 % renewable electricity. shop sell about help gift cards sell on etsy etsy, inc. help center etsy registry teams policies privacy settings sitemap forums investors etsy blog affiliates & creators careers etsy united kingdom press etsy germany impact etsy canada download the etsy app united states | english ( us ) | $ ( usd ) © 2025 etsy, inc. terms of use privacy interest - based ads local shops regions