guide to selling in person table of contents before the show 2 what ’ s your smart goal? 3 your booth 4 plan your booth 5 in - person marketing 9 the sell on etsy reader 10 etsy. com / reader 1 before the show gearing up for craft shows can be overwhelming. the following steps will help you lay the groundwork for a successful event. start your preparations as far in advance as possible, tackling one or two tasks a week to make the process manageable. set goals organize your show gear spend some time thinking about how many make a master list of all the supplies you ’ ll need products you hope to sell at any given event. to bring to the event. ( don ’ t forget to pack some close your eyes and visualize how you ’ ll feel after snacks! ) then, organize everything in clear, you ’ ve accomplished your goals. check out our stackable plastic containers, taping a list of smart goals worksheet on the next page to set contents to the side of each one. a goal that will help guide your decision - making throughout the planning process. your goal should alert your networks be specific, attainable and work within seasonal if you have a website, post information about time constraints — all while staying true to the the shows you ’ ll be attending, including dates spirit of your business. and locations. post announcements and regular updates on your favorite social media networks so get organized customers know exactly how to find you. create a spreadsheet to keep track of all your craft show details. if possible, include performance join the event on etsy local stats from previous events, including the number help online buyers find you anytime you sell in of items you sold and how much revenue those person by joining or creating an event on etsy local. sales generated. doing so will give you a clear idea the page, which promotes upcoming craft fairs of how many products you need to make for your and markets featuring etsy sellers, is easily next event. if you ’ ve never participated in a craft accessible on mobile devices, so buyers can show, make an estimate based on your sales goals discover your events whether they ’ re on the and how many items you can produce. go or browsing from home. take inventory pitch your story do you have stock or materials left over from read how to win the hearts of bloggers for tips on last season? go through all of your supplies and pitching journalists and bloggers about your show inventory and repurpose whatever you can to save participation. if you ’ ve written a press release, time and money. ask show organizers if they ’ d like to incorporate it, along with photos of you and your products, create a production schedule in their marketing materials. also, tell show think realistically about the amount of work you organizers that you would be happy to participate need to accomplish before each event and use a in press interviews about the show. talking to calendar to schedule your production hours. if the press can be intimidating, but the publicity you map out your hours ahead of time and stick to is invaluable. them, you ’ ll be less stressed. etsy. com / reader 2 what ’ s your smart goal? not sure how to set goals for an in - person selling event? follow these steps to create a smart ( specific, measurable, attainable, relevant and time - bound ) goal that ’ s both ambitious and realistic. step one get started by writing out your goal. for example, you might want to create a new product before your next show, make a large amount of your most popular item or make a small amount of a wider don ’ t worry — your goal doesn ’ t need to be array of items. worded perfectly just yet. the exercise below will help you polish your initial nugget of an idea into solid gold. step two fill out the chart below to refine your goal. getting smart key characteristics your goal ’ s key characteristics pinpoint the details. what do you want to accomplish and why? what research do specific you need to do? what materials, tools and knowledge will you need? how much time will it take to accomplish measurable your goal? how will you know you ’ ve reached it? how can you accomplish your goal? will it challenge you to develop your shop? is it attainable something you can realistically accomplish given the timeframe and necessary assets? how will yo goal enhance your business? relevant how will your shop benefit as a whole? what helpful business lessons will you learn? mark your calendar! by which dates will you time - bound need to achieve each element of your goal? when do you need to complete your goal? step three taking into consideration the elements you brainstormed above, craft your goal into one or two memorable sentences. they will serve as your north star as you work toward your desired result. etsy. com / reader 3 your booth think of your booth as your own boutique within an event. a great layout and display can mean the difference between a mediocre selling experience and a wildly successful one. read on for tips on designing and executing a booth that is inviting to shoppers, delivers your brand message and shows off your products. then, get inspired by exceptional booth displays compiled by the organizers of the renegade craft fair. keep it simple use noticeable signage when gathering props for your display, try not creating brand awareness at events is just as to overwhelm shoppers with too many tchotchkes important as selling products. make the most of ( or too much work! ). there ’ s something inviting your booth by hanging up your business banner, about a neat, orderly booth. a few vintage pieces press clippings, signs with information about your might be all you need to add that certain je ne products and photos of your items in use. don ’ t sais quoi. forget to hand out business cards with information about your etsy shop to encourage in - person vary the height of your display shoppers to buy more products online after displaying some of your items on risers will allow the event. shoppers to see your booth from far away. it will do a test run also allow more shoppers to browse through your items at the same time. “ if you notice shoppers well before the show, pull out some folding tables touching and picking up your items, then your and set up your entire display in your studio or display is working, ” says pamela dowdy of dowdy home. ask yourself if your booth will stand out in studio, an etsy shop in dallas that sells t - shirts a crowded market. think about what you might and tank tops with hand - drawn designs. the most want to add or take away. then, fine - tune your important thing to think about is what products display accordingly. are at eye - level, according to dowdy. “ that ’ s where someone is looking when they are gazing hot seller tip across a room, ” she says. “ pay very close attention to which elements you place in this spot — maybe “ we like to visually entice someone it ’ s a banner with your shop name or your into our booth, rather than holler main item display. ” at them to come in. putting our favorite pieces out front, and arranging them in a way where people are welcome to touch and interact with them lets people feel at ease with looking at more. ” - pamela dowdy, founder of dowdy studio - etsy. com / reader 4 plan your booth a great booth will set the stage for a stellar selling event. use this worksheet to plan ( or revamp ) your setup. booth components well before the show, pull out some folding tables what size is the booth for your event? and set up your entire display in your studio or home. ask yourself if your booth will stand out in a crowded market. think about what you might want to add or take away. then, fine - tune your display accordingly. equipment tips your plan folding tables are easy to transport. ex : i will order a folding table. choose the size & weight that best suits you. what height best shows off your products? table you might consider adding risers. choose a table covering to match your brand! market days are long. bring something ex : i ’ ll bring a folding chair i already own. to sit on. seating etsy. com / reader 5 displaying your wares this is the fun part! how will you show off your items? use display props that represent your brand ’ s aesthetic. some decisions will depend on your products ; others will be based on your personal preference. step one : ideas write down several keywords that describe your brand ’ s aesthetic. now, let ’ s decide how those words translate into actual display ideas. step two : your display jot down some props that represent your keywords. etsy. com / reader 6 bonus tips practice makes perfect to save time and reduce stress during the event, practice setting up and breaking down your display. prepare for the unexpected bring a few extras for your booth. here are some suggestions : • tape • safety pins • pens • extra pricing materials • zip ties • twine • scissors be flexible aim for a great start on show day. understand that things may ( and probably will ) need to change as you sell at more fairs. selling in person is always a learning experience. stay flexible and enjoy it. etsy. com / reader 7 pack your bags – a checklist inventory displays – tables, chairs, tent, risers signage power strip, extension cords and lights rolling carts for loading in and out display emergency kit – safety pins, bungee cords, zip ties, scissors and tape change – don ’ t miss a sale because you don ’ t have correct change business cards mailing list sign - up sheet your sell on etsy reader business license or permit receipt or sales book packaging material cash apron or fanny pack pens water and snacks personal safety kit – lip balm, band aids, sunscreen etsy. com / reader 8 in - person marketing selling events are a great opportunity to tell your business story to shoppers and talk about your processes, materials and inspirations. distinctive labels and packaging also play a key role in creating a great shopping experience for customers, whether you ’ re selling in person or online. with that in mind, consider the following tips for creating great marketing materials for your booth. label your products • keep it green. take a minimalist approach to product packaging whenever possible. think labels help make your items easily recognizable about ways to charm your customers while for buyers and gift recipients, allowing them to carefully considering your consumption. are there find your shop online more easily after an initial any household materials you can you reuse for sale. what kind of label you choose depends on packaging your items up for buyers at the fair, how you hope to communicate your brand to for example? customers and the nature of the products you ’ re selling. below are a few suggestions. • leave a calling card. use a business card to tie your branded elements together. you can get • stick to it. add a removable sticker with your started with moo business cards or design your logo or shop name to the back or base of own using a personalized stamp and blank card your products. stock. consider including a coupon code on your • get crafty with hang tags. perfect for vintage business card to encourage shoppers to visit your items, hang tags add a professional touch that online shop after the event. pre - stuff all of your reminds buyers you ’ ve got a whole store full bags with these freebies to save time. of wares. go viral • order a custom stamp. custom stamps are a with the popularity of mobile devices on the rise, great, affordable option if you sell paper goods. think of new ways build buzz for your shop online. find a design that matches your overall aesthetic create signage and offer incentives that invite and use it as a subtle reminder to guide customers shoppers to check in to your booth, increasing to your shop. your visibility to their followers. plan for photo opportunities and ask shoppers to tag your make your packaging pop business on social media. give shoppers a reason the care you put into packaging everyday orders to snap a photo with your business name clearly is an extension of your brand. use the same care in the shot ; when they ’ re swiping through their when planning packaging for in - person events, photos at home, they ’ ll remember to check your including shopping bags. online shop. • define your style. consider how you ’ ll reflect your brand message with your packaging choices. when ordering shopping bags or bag labels, think about colors, materials and overall composition carefully. etsy. com / reader 9 the sell on etsy reader selling the same items on etsy and in person can be a juggling act, but as you expand your business, you get invaluable brand reach by representing your shop seamlessly across channels. with the sell on etsy reader, you ’ ll be better able to manage your creative business, both online and off, at the same time. the sell on etsy reader allows you to accept credit card and cash payments on your iphone, ipad or android device. it also provides great ways to synchronize your brand in multiple places. here ’ s a look at some of the benefits : seamless inventory integration they can enter their email address right on your mobile device directly and get a receipt right away. when you ’ re selling one - of - a - kind items in person and listing them in your etsy shop, it can be tricky keep those backlinks to manage your inventory. in the past, many etsy sellers put their shops on vacation while selling if you ’ ve put in time pitching your products to in person to make sure they did not sell too many bloggers, you may have articles online that link of any given item. now, when you use the card to item listings. in the past, if you sold a one - of - reader, you ’ ll no longer have to worry about a - kind item in person, you ’ d have to deactivate unwittingly overselling your online inventory. that listing. unfortunately, any links leading to with the reader, you can sell items in person that item from features in blog posts, social media directly from your listings and the sale will be and other publications became dead, potentially reflected in your online etsy shop. confusing someone trying to find your shop. increase sales numbers on etsy bring your offline customer online you put a lot of time, effort and care into your flyers, business cards and product labels all work inperson sales. previously, your online buyers to bring your in - person customers online to your have not been able to see the number of sales you etsy shop. now, etsy will help as well. whenever at markets and fairs. now, you can instill more buyers choose to receive a receipt during their trust with your online buyers by showing how purchase with the sell on etsy reader, they ’ ll many items you are selling, not only online but in receive an emailed receipt containing other person. with every purchase made through your images of your items and a link to your etsy shop. sell on etsy reader, the number of sales in your make sure your in - person customers explore your etsy shop will increase. online presence by offering them receipts. get more feedback every sale should be an opportunity to get a rave review. with the reader, it ’ s now possible to capture that feedback on etsy from your in - person customers. when you sell items listed in your shop to in - person buyers, they will have the ability to leave feedback if they choose to receive an emailed receipt at the time of purchase. be direct and ask buyers if you can email a receipt to them. etsy. com / reader 10