the guide to selling on amazon business answers to 20 questions about the b2b marketplace on amazon © 2019 amazon services, inc. or its affiliates. all rights reserved. organizations of all kinds buy on amazon business 1 education what is healthcare amazon business in a nutshell? amazon business is the b2b marketplace on amazon, providing business customers with the pricing, selection and convenience of amazon, with government features and benefits designed for businesses of all sizes. amazon business customers can create free, multi - user accounts that allow them to choose from hundreds of millions of products on amazon, including business - only items. technology all kinds of organizations around the world benefit from business - only pricing, easy price comparisons, quantity discounts, free two - day shipping with business prime, and a familiar shopping experience. hospitality 2 manufacturing who buys on amazon business? more than one million businesses across a variety of industries energy purchase the products they need on amazon business. in the u. s., amazon business serves nearly 80 % of the 100 largest enrollment education organizations, 55 of the fortune 100 companies, more than half of the 100 biggest hospital systems and more than 40 % of the 100 most populous governments. 3 4 how do i start selling are existing amazon on amazon business? sellers eligible for the business seller if you already have an amazon seller account, just sign in and check your eligibility. if you don ’ t already have a seller account on amazon, program? contact the amazon business team and we ’ ll help you with what you need to do to start selling on amazon business. the amazon business seller program is available to once your account is activated, you ’ ll receive the benefits of the professional sellers on amazon in good standing. business seller program. members of the business seller program are held to higher performance requirements than those businesses selling via amazon. com. if you ’ re a current seller on amazon. com, you may be eligible for the business seller program based on your performance history. if you ’ re not currently eligible for 5 the program, you can request a special exception for access ; we ’ ll review your request and get back to you within three days. what are the high - level features and benefits? 6 the amazon business seller program gives sellers like you the tools and features needed to effectively sell products on amazon business. these include : • business pricing – the ability to offer prices only available to what is business customers. business pricing? • quantity discounts – pricing features that make it easier for customers to buy from you in large quantities, including the ability to business pricing means offers that are lower than your request a special price on an even larger purchase. retail prices that are intended to incentivize buyers to • tax exemption – automated tax exemption on qualified purchases purchase in bulk. from sellers participating in the amazon tax - exemption program. when you set a business price, these special offers are • certifications – claim quality, diversity, and ownership certifications only available to registered amazon business buyers. to help your company stand out to business customers who are while your products will be visible to all amazon looking to learn more about their suppliers. consumers, only registered amazon business buyers can see and read your business pricing. all other amazon consumers will see your set consumer price. business pricing cannot be higher than the consumer price on a product. 7 10 what are what is the profile business - only offers? editor? you can restrict offers in product categories like your potential customers want to know more about your healthcare, industrial, or lab equipment so they ’ re only company than just the price of your products, especially visible to verified business buyers. while business - only if they ’ re looking at larger purchases or recurring business. offers limit the discoverability of your products, they the profile editor helps you tell your company ’ s story, can help build credibility with certain customers. display seller certifications, and build trust. when business customers better understand who they ’ re sourcing from, they ’ re more likely to buy. 8 enhanced what are quantity discounts? product to encourage larger orders, you can set up to five content pricing tiers on each of your products. customers can see the price discounts for certain quantity orders, helps your which are completely defined by you. for even larger quantities, customers can request pricing from all customers sellers who offer a specific product. make 9 informed purchases what is enhanced • msds or sds product content? • cad files • user guides using this tool, brand owners can describe their product features • coc by including a unique brand story, enhanced images, and text • safety information placements. adding enhanced product content to your product • application guides detail pages can result in higher conversion rates, increased • spec sheets traffic, and higher sales when used effectively. • comparison charts • coa • installation manuals 11 12 what is the seller does amazon award certification program? seller certifications? you can distinguish your business in the eyes of amazon amazon doesn ’ t award or validate certifications. it ’ s up to you business customers by participating in the seller certification to obtain certifications from an authorized certifying body like program, which enables you to claim and display the the international organization for standardization ( iso ), and certifications that apply to your organization. to provide supporting documentation for the certification such as a picture of a physical certificate or a business identifier number ( like duns ). the 18 nationally recognized diversity, ownership and quality certifications diversity and ownership quality certifications certifications • small business • quality management systems ( iso 9001 ) • lgbt business enterprise • medical devices standards ( iso 13485 ) • minority - owned business • environmental management • women ’ s business enterprise systems ( iso 14001 ) • woman - owned small business • food quality standards • economically disadvantaged ( iso 22000 / haacp ) women - owned small business • quality management systems – • sba - certified small automotive ( iso / ts 16949 ) disadvantaged business • quality systems – aerospace ( as 9100 ) • sba - certified hubzone firm • quality systems – aerospace – • sba - certified 8 ( a ) firm distributors ( as 9120 ) • veteran - owned small business • service - disabled veteran - owned small business multiple ways to fulfill your orders and attain the valued prime status on your listings you seller - fulfilled prime you handle : merchant fulfillment customer pricing shipping you handle : service customer pricing shipping service fullfillment by amazon you handle amazon handles customer pricing shipping returns service your customers 13 how are orders fulfilled by amazon business sellers? you can adopt one of four approaches to fulfilling orders placed on amazon business : 1. seller fulfilled prime – for sellers who qualify, based on their own 3. merchant fulfillment – just like it sounds. you fulfill mature fulfillment and logistics infrastructure, seller fulfilled prime enables orders directly from your own facility, following the offers to achieve prime status, but ship directly from a seller location amazon business packaging requirements. prime status according to the prime customer promise. does not apply to merchant fulfilled orders. 2. fulfillment by amazon ( fba ) – orders are fulfilled by amazon and your 4. hybrid approach – many organizations use a mixed products are shipped from state - of - the - art amazon fulfillment centers. fulfillment strategy, shipping certain products directly orders fulfilled through fba achieve prime status. and others through fulfillment by amazon. 14 16 what is fulfillment who handles by amazon? customer service after the sale? the fulfillment by amazon program helps you meet the stringent delivery expectations of business customers. just like on amazon. com, you handle customer service using our advanced web - to - warehouse high - speed for any orders that you fulfill directly. amazon provides picking and sorting system, amazon quickly ships your world - class, 24 / 7 customer service on orders fulfilled products from our fulfillment centers. amazon handles and shipped through the fulfillment by amazon service. the customer service and returns on any orders fulfilled and shipped through fulfillment by amazon. business customers recognize and trust the prime logo, which signifies fast shipping and superior customer service. 17 15 what are the costs and fees for amazon business? how much does fulfillment by the monthly subscription fee for professional sellers is currently $ 39. 99 per month. amazon cost? the professional selling plan is a month - to - month contract ; you can cancel at any time by opting out. you pay as you go with fulfillment by amazon ; you ’ re charged for the orders we fulfill and the storage space referral fees in the amazon business fee schedule you use in our fulfillment centers. shipping costs are apply to business transactions involving products in the included in your fees, and there ’ s no extra charge for following categories : amazon prime free two - day shipping and free • consumer electronics shipping on eligible orders. • office products • tools & home improvement • industrial & scientific business customers fees in all other categories are the same as for all recognize and trust the professional sellers on amazon. please note that we prime logo, which signifies may implement fees specific to the amazon business seller program in the future. fast shipping and superior customer service. 18 what are the quality requirements? customers purchasing products on amazon business have high standards for both service and quality. therefore, amazon business sellers must meet certain requirements : • low pre - shipment cancellation rate ( less than 1 % ) • low late - shipping rate ( less than 2 % ) • low order - defect rate ( for example, few a - to - z claims, returns or chargebacks ) business seller business sellers who meet and exceed quality requirements don ’ t just make their customers happy — they increase their organic discoverability on packaging amazon business with the program badge visible on their offers. requirements 19 1. a tracking number on every business order package 2. a packing slip with every how do we know if we ’ re business order package meeting the performance 3. a purchase order number requirements? with every business order pack - age ( when provided by the cus - the seller central portal provides you with personalized, up - to - the tomer ) minute metrics on your performance relative to the requirements. 20 how do we start selling? if you ’ re a current amazon seller in good standing, registering for a business seller account is a straightforward process — just sign in to your account to check your eligibility. get started start selling on amazon business