search for anything sign in seller handbook latest articles getting started growing your business seller stories site updates august 28, 2024 | 10 minute read how to get 5 - star reviews dazzle your customers and get glowing reviews with these tips based on etsy ’ s research. by etsy staff want to open your own etsy shop? create your shop today! learn more reviews let buyers know what to expect when they shop with you. and good reviews help buyers feel more confident completing a purchase. star ratings of 4 or 5 can also help attract new buyers and keep them coming back to your shop. in fact, our research shows that buyers that leave a 5 - star rating are more likely to come back and shop from the same shop than buyers leaving lower ratings. * average review rating is also an important component of etsy ’ s customer service standards, and shops that consistently follow our customer service standards are prioritized in search. for this service standard, we have two tiers, based on the volume of reviews you get during a 3 - month review period : shops with less than 40 reviews should have no more than four 3 - star - or lower reviews per period. for shops with more than 40 reviews, 3 - star - or lower reviews should be less than 10 % of their average reviews for the period. visit your etsy search visibility page in shop manager to view your current average review rating, along with other key customer service factors. positive reviews are also a key piece of criteria in earning a star seller badge, which makes it easier for shoppers on etsy to know you have a proven record of providing an excellent customer experience and can help increase your conversion rate. to qualify, you ' ll need a 4. 8 rating average or above for the three - month review period, and you ’ ll need to meet the other star seller criteria, which you can read here. what qualities do positive reviews have in common? we analyzed reviews on etsy to see what kinds of words shoppers used to describe the item and their experience. as you might expect, many reviewers mention how much they “ love ” the items they purchased and how “ perfect ” the items are for them. but when shoppers write about their experience making a purchase in their reviews, they often mention three important factors : quality : the item they received matched or exceeded their expectations. it was made from the materials they expected, its size was accurate, and the craftsmanship was just superb. customer service : shoppers mention the great customer service they received — and the extra - special touches that they can only find on etsy. shipping : when they make a purchase on etsy, shoppers want to know that their orders will arrive on time. shoppers frequently talk about shipping or delivery in their reviews. based on that research, here are a few things you can do in your shop that could lead to positive reviews and get you one step closer to earning a star seller badge. use your listing description to answer shoppers ’ questions your listing description is a chance to show off your personality and highlight what makes your products unique, but it should also cover all the “ nuts and bolts ” type of information a customer would need to understand exactly what they ’ re purchasing. be sure to include : detailed measurements so shoppers know the item will work for them or their space. a description of the materials used. any notes about what is or is not included in their purchase. additional features that a shopper might be looking for. for example, if a piece of pottery is glazed to be food safe or a tote bag has a pocket inside. showcase your product from all sides product photography can also help you give shoppers the information they need. props in your photos give a sense of the item ’ s size and scale, while close - up shots help shoppers understand the texture. include photos and a listing video to highlight your item ’ s best features, and if you ’ re selling vintage items, include photos that show any flaws. check out the ultimate guide to product photography for more tips. set expectations with a clear return policy a clear return policy can give potential shoppers confidence in the level of customer service they ’ ll receive from you. it ’ s a small way to say “ i ’ m here to help. ” your listings should include a return policy so that buyers know whether you accept returns or exchanges before they make a purchase. you don ’ t have to offer returns or exchanges on your items unless it ’ s required where you live. when determining how listings show up in search, return policy is a factor of listing quality. and while shop policies don ’ t directly impact star seller eligibility, they can help encourage positive reviews by setting clear expectations with shoppers. review your shop policies respond to messages quickly when shoppers have questions about your products, they want answers right away. in fact, sellers who respond to messages within 24 hours are five times more likely to make a sale than sellers with a longer response time. * * responding to customers ’ messages creates a reliable shopping experience and ensures your customers get the answers they need to feel confident making a purchase from your shop. that ’ s why responding to initial messages within 48 hours is one of our customer service standards. we only look at the first message within a thread and messages sent through your auto - responder. and we exclude any messages in your from etsy inbox as well as spam. visit the etsy search visibility page to see your current response rate. to qualify for star seller, you ’ ll need to respond to 95 % or more of initial messages from buyers within 24 hours ( just the first message, not ongoing conversations ). set aside some time each day for responding to questions. download the etsy seller app for your android or ios device, so you can respond to messages when you ’ re away from your computer. want to respond even faster? quick replies let you save bits of text for future messages so you spend less time retyping the same messages. when you ’ re writing your message, just click the quick replies icon to create a new quick reply or add an existing quick reply to your message. you can also cut down on the number of messages you receive about custom orders by turning on the personalization field. that way, shoppers can send you their personalization details upfront when they check out. learn more about offering personalization. let shoppers know when their item will be delivered shoppers often mention shipping time in their reviews. keep them happy by setting clear expectations upfront. when shoppers have the information they need, they can relax knowing their order will arrive when they need it. shipping also impacts your eligibility for star seller — to qualify, you ’ ll need 95 % or more of your orders to ship within your stated processing time and with tracking * * * or you ' ll need to have purchased a shipping label on etsy. update your shipping profile settings with your preferred shipping carrier and mail classes for different destinations and shipping upgrades. based on your listing ’ s set processing time and shipping carriers, we ’ ll show shoppers an estimated date range of when their items should arrive. if you use calculated shipping, we ’ ll show an estimated delivery date range automatically ; there ’ s nothing you need to do. update or create a shipping profile including tracking information when you mark an item as shipped puts the power to track in your customer ’ s hands — they can check their email and see exactly where their order is at anytime. most mail classes available through shipping labels on etsy include tracking. when you use shipping labels on etsy, we ’ ll automatically mark the order as shipped and send tracking info to the buyer. if you buy your shipping labels somewhere else, you can add a tracking number when you mark the order as shipped. in the united states, canada, australia, or united kingdom? try shipping labels on etsy ship on time always ship orders on time. buyers are more likely to come back and shop from sellers who ship orders on time than sellers who ship late. * if things get hectic or circumstances you can ’ t control mean an order is going to go out later than planned, send a personal note to the buyer to let them know what ’ s changed. we use the processing times you set for each listing to determine the ship - by date. update your processing times to accurately reflect your workflow and set clear expectations with shoppers. update processing times surprise and delight with thoughtful touches shopping on etsy is different because each purchase is supporting an individual entrepreneur — you! let your customers know how much you appreciate their business with a handwritten thank - you note and pretty packaging. those little touches that show you went above and beyond will make them smile and could positively influence their review. send a thank - you coupon saying thanks is a nice way to put a finishing touch on a shopper ’ s experience, and to keep your shop top of mind the next time they need something amazing. create a thank - you coupon to automatically send your customers an email with a coupon code after their order is complete. it ’ s a special touch that just might inspire them to leave a great review — and to make another purchase in the near future. create a thank you coupon return to the ultimate guide to starting an etsy shop * based on same - shop repeat purchase rate data between jan 2020 and dec 2020 * * based on conversion rate data from buyer - initiated conversations between jan 2020 and dec 2020 * * * tracking is part of the shipping criteria if you ’ re a seller in the us or your shop currency is set to usd. if you ’ re outside of the us or use a shop currency other than usd, find out how we determine the shipping data for your country here. etsy is here for you when you need us. find live 24 / 7 support in the help center, or for some sellers, right in shop manager. words by etsy staff latest articles the ultimate guide to etsy policy learn why policies are created, what considerations to keep in mind to avoid listing removals, and how we ’ re working to increase transparency. read now how we create policies at etsy get a behind - the - scenes look at how we develop and enforce our house rules. read now 4 policy best practices when listing items on etsy understand what to keep in mind when listing your items, along with actions you can take to avoid policy missteps. read now 7 essentials for exceptional customer service communication is a vital skill for any online business. get tips from an etsy expert and experienced sellers, plus customizable message reply templates. read now get free online marketing tips and resources delivered directly to your inbox you @ email. com subscribe yes! send me exclusive offers, unique gift ideas, and personalized tips for shopping and selling on etsy. enter your email subscribe etsy is powered by 100 % renewable electricity. shop sell about help gift cards sell on etsy etsy, inc. help center etsy registry teams policies privacy settings sitemap forums investors etsy blog affiliates & creators careers etsy united kingdom press etsy germany impact etsy canada download the etsy app united states | english ( us ) | $ ( usd ) © 2025 etsy, inc. terms of use privacy interest - based ads local shops regions