search for anything sign in seller handbook latest articles getting started growing your business seller stories site updates december 9, 2024 | 7 minute read how to get the most out of your shop stats and plan for 2025 review your shop ’ s performance, note what you ’ ve learned, see how you ’ ve grown, and pat yourself on the back for the progress you ’ ve made. by katy svehaug want to open your own etsy shop? create your shop today! learn more determining how your business is performing over time is essential in crafting an effective growth strategy. your shop stats generate personalized data illustrating how people find your shop and engage with your listings. if you used our holiday goal setting worksheet to chart a course for yourself this season, now is a great time to pair those goals with the insights available in your shop stats to gauge your performance and shape your goals for the year ahead. in your shop stats, you can dig into a wide variety of information : how many orders you ’ ve had, which listings are most popular, which search terms shoppers are using to find you. the patterns and insights you garner can inform everything from your product development to your advertising budget. read on for tips to help you understand what data is being presented in your shop stats dashboard and how to use that information to refine and grow your shop. understand your shop ’ s performance at a glance from the shop manager, you can find your personalized shop and listing analytics under stats in the sidebar. the top overview provides a snapshot of your shop ’ s performance at a glance, along with options to review performance over various periods and helpful clues for where to focus your efforts depending on your business goals. when looking at your visits and orders, look at least 30 days at a time, instead of today or the past seven days, to get a better sense of the health of your shop. many shops experience fluctuations in sales from season to season. choosing from ranges like last 30 days, this year, or all time, the graph will automatically update to reflect performance over the period, providing a quick visualization of trends in visits, orders, conversion rate, or revenue. while the default information presented in this view is a comparison of shop visits, selecting orders, conversion rate, or revenue will reflect that information on the graph. you can find a detailed glossary of the terms used throughout shop stats here. above the chart in this view, you ’ ll also see quick insights on performance trends for the selected period, such as an increase in revenue or a decrease in visits. the numbers in each category provide clues as to where to look next, and it ’ s important to consider the relationship between different metrics. one important metric relationship to track is your conversion rate, calculated by the ratio between visits and completed orders. your conversion rate is best measured over longer periods of time, and can be informed by a variety of factors, including your product photography, pricing, and other factors like your number of customer reviews and average review rating. put things in perspective by comparing your stats to the same time last year. keep a list of your major marketing initiatives, promotions, or any paid advertising so you can understand what might have caused spikes in your traffic and sales. for example, if your conversion rate is up for the period, but visits are down, you might focus your deeper metrics review on any changes in your traffic sources. while the global average conversion rate for e - commerce sites is 2. 9 % ( including a wide range of larger online retailers ) *, a “ good ” conversion rate on etsy looks different for every shop, and varies significantly across categories and price points. in general, sellers should expect a conversion rate between 1 – 5 %. * * while your shop is getting up and running, a low conversion rate shouldn ’ t be cause for alarm. as more traffic is coming to your shop, the more opportunities you ' ll have to increase your conversion rate. find in - depth tips in create listings that convert. take a closer look at how shoppers are finding your shop as you scroll down the page, how shoppers found you displays internal and external traffic sources that brought visitors to your shop during the period selected. clicking into each source generates a more granular view of the information available. by etsy : traffic to your shop generated by etsy is broken down by visits via the etsy app & other etsy pages ( previously “ other etsy pages ” ) and etsy search. you ’ ll also see traffic generated by etsy ' s marketing & seo ( was “ external search ” ). this traffic comes from etsy - funded offsite promotions and search engine optimizations that bring shoppers to your listings. updating your keywords, listing - level attributes, listing titles, and descriptions can influence these numbers. learn more about optimizing your listings in the ultimate guide to etsy search. by you : the traffic you brought to your shop independently includes direct & other traffic links ( previously “ other ” ) from things like blogs, news sites, and other websites. in this section you ’ ll also see visits generated from each social media channel ( including instagram, pinterest, facebook, twitter, and tumblr ) and traffic generated by etsy ads. you can learn more about using etsy ads to advertise your products on etsy, including in etsy search results, and on google, here. deep dive into listing - level engagement your final view in shop stats displays an array of performance metrics for all of your active listings. ( note : listing - level data for sold, expired, and draft listings is coming soon. ) here you ’ ll see a sum of total listing views for the period, along with the average number of listings a shopper views when they visit your shop. you can see which listings are viewed and sold most frequently, along with the revenue generated from each listing during the time period. the average number of listings viewed per shopper can provide a helpful sense of how engaged shoppers are with your broader shop offerings, from your range of products to the overall branding and aesthetic of your shop page. learn more about introducing tiered product offerings that can help increase this number here. as you review the performance of individual listings, consider promoting your most popular listings in your marketing on social media or elsewhere. buyers visit your top viewed listings for a reason. you can use that information to turn those visits into sales. you may consider retiring or revamping items that have very low views or sales, so you can focus your energy on your top performers. every shop ’ s goals and path to achieving them is unique. once you have a sense of how your shop is performing, decide which metrics you ’ d like to impact, set numerical goals, and begin experimenting. reviewing changes in your stats every two weeks or so will help you keep track of your progress along the way. view your shop stats * via monetate ' s q2 2019 ecommerce benchmark report. * * based on internal analysis of etsy orders in 2019. return to the ultimate guide to starting an etsy shop words by katy svehaug katy svehaug is a senior content strategist at etsy. latest articles the ultimate guide to etsy policy learn why policies are created, what considerations to keep in mind to avoid listing removals, and how we ’ re working to increase transparency. read now how we create policies at etsy get a behind - the - scenes look at how we develop and enforce our house rules. read now 4 policy best practices when listing items on etsy understand what to keep in mind when listing your items, along with actions you can take to avoid policy missteps. read now 7 essentials for exceptional customer service communication is a vital skill for any online business. get tips from an etsy expert and experienced sellers, plus customizable message reply templates. read now get free online marketing tips and resources delivered directly to your inbox you @ email. com subscribe yes! send me exclusive offers, unique gift ideas, and personalized tips for shopping and selling on etsy. enter your email subscribe etsy is powered by 100 % renewable electricity. shop sell about help gift cards sell on etsy etsy, inc. help center etsy registry teams policies privacy settings sitemap forums investors etsy blog affiliates & creators careers etsy united kingdom press etsy germany impact etsy canada download the etsy app united states | english ( us ) | $ ( usd ) © 2025 etsy, inc. terms of use privacy interest - based ads local shops regions