starting an etsy® business for dummies®, 4th edition published by : john wiley & sons, inc., 111 river street, hoboken, nj 07030 - 5774, www. wiley. com copyright © 2023 by john wiley & sons, inc., hoboken, new jersey published simultaneously in canada no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning or otherwise, except as permitted under sections 107 or 108 of the 1976 united states copyright act, without the prior written permission of the publisher. requests to the publisher for permission should be addressed to the permissions department, john wiley & sons, inc., 111 river street, hoboken, nj 07030, ( 201 ) 748 - 6011, fax ( 201 ) 748 - 6008, or online at. http : / / www. wiley. com / go / permissions trademarks : wiley, for dummies, the dummies man logo, dummies. com, making everything easier, and related trade dress are trademarks or registered trademarks of john wiley & sons, inc. and may not be used without written permission. etsy is a registered trademark of etsy, inc. all other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. john wiley & sons, inc. is not associated with any product or vendor mentioned in this book. limit of liability / disclaimer of warranty : while the publisher and authors have used their best efforts in preparing this work, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this work and specifically disclaim all warranties, including without limitation any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. no warranty may be created or extended by sales representatives, written sales materials or promotional statements for this work. the fact that an organization, website, or product is referred to in this work as a citation and / or potential source of further information does not mean that the publisher and authors endorse the information or services the organization, website, or product may provide or recommendations it may make. this work is sold with the understanding that the publisher is not engaged in rendering professional services. the advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. you should consult with a specialist where appropriate. further, readers should be aware that websites listed in this work may have changed or disappeared between when this work was written and when it is read. neither the publisher nor authors shall be liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages. for general information on our other products and services, please contact our customer care department within the u. s. at 877 - 762 - 2974, outside the u. s. at 317 - 572 - 3993, or fax 317 - 572 - 4002. for technical support, please visit. https : / / hub. wiley. com / community / support / dummies wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print - on - demand. some material included with standard print versions of this book may not be included in e - books or in print - on - demand. if this book refers to media such as a cd or dvd that is not included in the version you purchased, you may download this material at. for more information about wiley http : / / booksupport. wiley. com products, visit. www. wiley. com library of congress control number : 2023934630 isbn : 978 - 1 - 394 - 16870 - 5 ; isbn : 978 - 1 - 394 - 16872 - 9 ( ebk ) ; isbn : 978 - 1 - 394 - 16871 - 2 ( ebk ) starting an etsy® business for dummies® to view this book ' s cheat sheet, simply go to www. dummies. com and search for “ starting an etsy business for dummies cheat sheet ” in the search box. table of contents cover title page copyright introduction about this book foolish assumptions icons used in this book beyond the book where to go from here part 1 : getting started with etsy chapter 1 : handmade for each other : falling in love with etsy creative crusade : understanding etsy ’ s purpose and business model introducing the world of etsy storefront and center : setting up your shop sell ’ s angels : surveying the etsy selling process takin ’ care of business : handling business matters community collage : engaging in the etsy community appy dance : introducing the etsy apps chapter 2 : basic training : etsy account basics avoiding trouble : reviewing etsy ’ s house rules and terms of use sign me up! becoming a registered user it ’ s a sign : signing in to etsy home sweet home : navigating etsy ’ s home page it ’ s all you : exploring the your account menu account trackula : managing your etsy account high profile : setting up your public profile chapter 3 : buy, buy, buy : finding and buying items on etsy gimme one reason : why to buy on etsy what ’ s up? confirming that a seller is on the up - and - up transaction oriented : delving into transaction details mobile order : shopping in the etsy app under review : leaving a review after you buy first aid : getting help from the seller case in point : opening a case using etsy ’ s purchase protection program chapter 4 : safety first : maintaining your privacy and safety on etsy oh, behave! adhering to etsy ’ s house rules private party : guarding your privacy on etsy safe passage : keeping yourself safe on etsy part 2 : if you build it, they will come : setting up your etsy shop chapter 5 : sell yes : understanding what you can and can ’ t sell on etsy yes, we can! figuring out what you can sell on etsy just say no! understanding what ’ s not allowed on etsy offense taken : reporting prohibited items off with their heads! knowing what happens if you break a rule chapter 6 : setting up shop : creating your etsy storefront shop to it : creating your etsy shop banner day : adding a banner and shop icon to your shop title wave : adding a shop title and announcement all about me : adding an about section let ’ s see it! viewing your etsy shop chapter 7 : upper management : using shop manager to run your etsy store i want to see the manager : navigating the shop manager what a tool : exploring shop manager tools it ’ s a setup! accessing shop settings change the channel : setting up sales channels chapter 8 : policy academy : setting your shop ’ s policies fair play : general policy tips policy wonk : using etsy ’ s policy settings hey, eu! adding seller details for eu compliance that ’ s a faq, jack! fielding frequently asked questions chapter 9 : the price is right! pricing your pieces formula one : pricing formulas price - a - roni : evaluating your prices something old : pricing vintage items how low can you go? pricing for sales part 3 : sell coverage : understanding the etsy selling process chapter 10 : say cheese! capturing product images choosing a digital camera style guide : styling your shoot lighting bug : lighting your shot compose yourself : composing your shot motion picture : capturing video of your item clean - up on image five : editing images and videos chapter 11 : use your words : composing engaging titles and descriptions seo speedwagon : using search engine optimization to drive traffic headline muse : penning persuasive listing titles story time : telling a story with your listing description proofread, please! proofreading your listing chapter 12 : for your listing pleasure : adding and managing item listings new attitude : listing a new item ch - ch - ch - ch - changes : editing a listing copycat : copying a listing renewable resources : renewing a listing pull the plug : deactivating a listing rearrange your face : rearranging the listings in your etsy shop feature comforts : featuring a listing in your etsy shop shop mobile : managing listings with the etsy seller app chapter 13 : order up! processing and shipping orders you ’ ve got sale : finding out you have a sale baby got track : keeping track of orders show me the money : receiving payment thanksgiving : thanking the buyer handle me with care : packaging items for shipment ship happens : choosing a shipping carrier willing and label : using etsy shipping labels deliverance : sending your package on its merry way profile pick : saving and selecting a shipping profile crafters without borders : shipping internationally mobile carrier : managing orders on the etsy seller app part 4 : all up in your business : handling business matters chapter 14 : super market : marketing your etsy business brandy, you ’ re a fine girl : building your brand poetry in promotion : advertising on etsy discount of monte cristo : offering discounts managing your discount offers social studies : promoting your etsy shop and listings on social media camera ready : sharing videos with explore chapter 15 : you ’ ve been served : providing exceptional customer service sliding into your dms : accessing etsy messages bungle fever : handling a botched transaction and other tough issues chapter 16 : business as usual : managing your etsy shop room and dashboard : exploring the shop manager dashboard one track mind : tracking and analyzing shop stats high finance : viewing your etsy financials it ’ s payday! changing your deposit schedule recording artist : keeping accurate records income - ing! paying taxes on shop income structured settlement : choosing a business structure the artist is out : switching to vacation mode hanging it up : closing your etsy shop chapter 17 : growing your etsy business howdy, partner : disclosing shop members and production partners plus one : leveling up with etsy plus pattern - cake, pattern - cake : building a custom shop with pattern going global : translating your shop for a global market ( art ) fair and square : using square for in - person sales part 5 : community services : exploring the etsy community chapter 18 : community building : joining the etsy community free forum : using etsy forums go, team! exploring etsy teams miss manners : respecting community etiquette chapter 19 : news attitude : keeping up with etsy news dear diary : exploring the etsy journal mail bonding : signing up for etsy email newsletters social skills : staying in touch using social media proto tip : joining etsy prototypes chapter 20 : help me! getting help on etsy search and rescue : finding help on etsy help us, etsy - wan kenobi : contacting etsy support forum letter : finding answers in the etsy forums handy dandy : studying the seller handbook part 6 : the part of tens chapter 21 : ten terrific tips for etsy sellers have a place for everything stock up to save time organize your paperwork use what you discover from other shops offer service with a smile connect, connect, connect test and experiment learn to say no never give in have fun! chapter 22 : ten strategies for marketing your etsy shop offer tiered pricing give to get provide a guarantee consider a loyalty program impose a deadline send an email newsletter wear your items in the real world … … and on social media, too do more than pose help your community index about the authors connect with dummies end user license agreement list of illustrations chapter 1 figure 1 - 1 : etsy ’ s home page. figure 1 - 2 : the shop manager and your account links. figure 1 - 3 : your account. figure 1 - 4 : shop manager. figure 1 - 5 : the home page of the etsy app. figure 1 - 6 : the you screen on the etsy app. figure 1 - 7 : the main page on the etsy seller app. chapter 2 figure 2 - 1 : the our house rules page. figure 2 - 2 : review etsy ’ s terms of use. figure 2 - 3 : etsy ’ s home page. figure 2 - 4 : the sign in pop - up window. figure 2 - 5 : the create your account pop - up window. figure 2 - 6 : use your username or email address and your password to sign in to... figure 2 - 7 : the etsy marketplace home page offers easy access to listings and m... figure 2 - 8 : keep up with the etsy journal. figure 2 - 9 : footer links offer easy access to tons of etsy info and features. figure 2 - 10 : the etsy app home screen looks different but offers many of the sa... figure 2 - 11 : the your account menu provides easy access to all things you. figure 2 - 12 : the your account menu on the etsy app. figure 2 - 13 : the account page. figure 2 - 14 : the public profile page. figure 2 - 15 : the preferences page. figure 2 - 16 : the privacy page. figure 2 - 17 : the security page. figure 2 - 18 : the addresses page. figure 2 - 19 : the credit cards page. figure 2 - 20 : the emails page. figure 2 - 21 : the etsy app settings menu. figure 2 - 22 : preview your profile. chapter 3 figure 3 - 1 : type a keyword or phrase in the search field. figure 3 - 2 : etsy displays your search results. figure 3 - 3 : open the listing. figure 3 - 4 : drill down to the type of items you want to see. figure 3 - 5 : etsy displays listings in the chosen category, subcategory, or sub -... figure 3 - 6 : see listings hand - picked by etsy ’ s editors. figure 3 - 7 : check a shop ’ s rating. figure 3 - 8 : a star seller badge inspires confidence in the seller. figure 3 - 9 : the item appears in your shopping cart. figure 3 - 10 : double - check your order details here. figure 3 - 11 : this screen keeps you apprised of the status of your order. figure 3 - 12 : choose a star rating for your purchase. figure 3 - 13 : leave a review about the item, transaction, or seller. figure 3 - 14 : get help with a transaction. figure 3 - 15 : supply the relevant info. figure 3 - 16 : open a case from this screen. figure 3 - 17 : open a case against the seller. figure 3 - 18 : say how you want to resolve the problem. figure 3 - 19 : view your case here. figure 3 - 20 : view updates on your case. chapter 4 figure 4 - 1 : toggle on two - factor authentication. figure 4 - 2 : download backup codes. chapter 6 figure 6 - 1 : choose a shop language, country, and currency. figure 6 - 2 : etsy prompts you to choose your shop name. figure 6 - 3 : create your first listing. figure 6 - 4 : set up etsy payments. figure 6 - 5 : enter your credit card information. figure 6 - 6 : set up two - factor authentication. figure 6 - 7 : you can edit your shop ’ s appearance from this page. figure 6 - 8 : what a difference a banner and shop icon make! figure 6 - 9 : type your shop title in this dialog box. figure 6 - 10 : etsy adds your shop title and shop announcement to your shop. figure 6 - 11 : the about your shop name settings. figure 6 - 12 : add photos to your shop. figure 6 - 13 : your shop as it appears to your customers! chapter 7 figure 7 - 1 : a shop manager icon appears in the header bar at the top of etsy ma... figure 7 - 2 : the shop manager dashboard. figure 7 - 3 : some links on the left side of the shop manager open a menu with ad... figure 7 - 4 : switch to the etsy marketplace. chapter 8 figure 8 - 1 : the policy settings page. figure 8 - 2 : a simple shop - wide returns and cancellations policy has been applie... figure 8 - 3 : the returns & exchanges tab on the etsy policy settings page. figure 8 - 4 : the cancellations tab on the etsy policy settings page. figure 8 - 5 : allow cancellations. figure 8 - 6 : the privacy tab on the policy settings page. figure 8 - 7 : set your privacy policy. figure 8 - 8 : view fixed policies. figure 8 - 9 : view your shop policies. figure 8 - 10 : add seller details to comply with eu regulations. figure 8 - 11 : create a faq. chapter 10 figure 10 - 1 : call attention to your item with a white seamless background. figure 10 - 2 : architectural backgrounds add an element of interest to product ph... figure 10 - 3 : a universal prop can convey the size of your piece. figure 10 - 4 : feature a prop that suggests how to use your piece. figure 10 - 5 : try using a prop that suggests what inspired your piece. figure 10 - 6 : diffused lighting softens an image and makes it more appealing. figure 10 - 7 : angling the camera produces interesting results. figure 10 - 8 : shoot tight for added impact. figure 10 - 9 : blur the background to emphasize your item. figure 10 - 10 : use the grid to compose your image. figure 10 - 11 : open your photo in pixlr e. figure 10 - 12 : the adjustment menu. figure 10 - 13 : the effect library. figure 10 - 14 : edit your video here. chapter 12 figure 12 - 1 : the listings page. figure 12 - 2 : use this page to create a listing. figure 12 - 3 : the top part of the listing details section of the add a new listi... figure 12 - 4 : add a production partner, create or choose a shop section, and ide... figure 12 - 5 : enter the price, quantity, and sku. figure 12 - 6 : setting variations. figure 12 - 7 : link a photo to each variation. figure 12 - 8 : toggle variations on or off. figure 12 - 9 : apply these settings if your item can be personalized. figure 12 - 10 : shipping options. figure 12 - 11 : review your listing. figure 12 - 12 : your listing is posted. figure 12 - 13 : choose edit from the manage this listing menu. figure 12 - 14 : you can rearrange your listings from this page. chapter 13 figure 13 - 1 : open shop manager. figure 13 - 2 : view sold items in the new tab of the orders & shipping page. figure 13 - 3 : the order entry contains lots of useful information and links. figure 13 - 4 : leave a message for the buyer. figure 13 - 5 : offering gift wrapping. figure 13 - 6 : getting the best rate with etsy shipping labels. figure 13 - 7 : choosing etsy shipping label preferences. figure 13 - 8 : printing an etsy shipping label. figure 13 - 9 : the you just purchased x label dialog box. figure 13 - 10 : requesting a pickup. figure 13 - 11 : entering pickup information. figure 13 - 12 : the shipping profiles settings. figure 13 - 13 : the create shipping profile dialog box. figure 13 - 14 : viewing orders using the etsy seller app. figure 13 - 15 : accessing order details using the etsy seller app. chapter 14 figure 14 - 1 : the set your daily budget dialog box. figure 14 - 2 : opt to advertise a new listing during the listing - creation process... figure 14 - 3 : the etsy ads performance dashboard. figure 14 - 4 : manage your etsy ads listings here. figure 14 - 5 : change your ad spend. figure 14 - 6 : the sales and discounts page. figure 14 - 7 : set up a sale. figure 14 - 8 : choose the listings for your sale. figure 14 - 9 : create a promo code. figure 14 - 10 : targeted offer settings. figure 14 - 11 : managing sales and discounts. figure 14 - 12 : edit or end a sale. figure 14 - 13 : deactivate a promo code. figure 14 - 14 : the social media page. figure 14 - 15 : the social account settings. figure 14 - 16 : choose the type of content you want to post. figure 14 - 17 : the create post dialog box for sale - related posts. figure 14 - 18 : the create post page. figure 14 - 19 : the posts tab in explore. figure 14 - 20 : the new explore post screen. figure 14 - 21 : the add video screen. figure 14 - 22 : the editor screen. figure 14 - 23 : view video stats and delete the video here. chapter 15 figure 15 - 1 : choose messages in the your account menu. figure 15 - 2 : the messages pane in the shop manager. figure 15 - 3 : click a message to read and reply to it. figure 15 - 4 : the new message dialog box. figure 15 - 5 : the emails tab in the shop manager account settings page. figure 15 - 6 : the item ’ s order page. figure 15 - 7 : choose refund from the more actions menu. figure 15 - 8 : issue a refund. figure 15 - 9 : cancel a transaction. chapter 16 figure 16 - 1 : view the shop manager dashboard. figure 16 - 2 : the shop manager stats page. figure 16 - 3 : taking a deeper dive into etsy stats. figure 16 - 4 : tracking listing performance. figure 16 - 5 : view payment account details. figure 16 - 6 : change your deposit schedule. figure 16 - 7 : put your shop in vacation mode any time you need a break. figure 16 - 8 : etsy confirms your shop is in vacation mode. figure 16 - 9 : etsy informs shop visitors that you ’ re taking a break. chapter 17 figure 17 - 1 : the shop members page. figure 17 - 2 : the add shop member dialog box. figure 17 - 3 : the production partners page in shop manager. figure 17 - 4 : adding a new production partner. figure 17 - 5 : click the editing options button and choose change production part... figure 17 - 6 : the update production partners for x listings dialog box. figure 17 - 7 : subscribing to etsy plus. figure 17 - 8 : the manage shop languages dialog box. figure 17 - 9 : translate your shop text. figure 17 - 10 : translate a listing. figure 17 - 11 : connect with square. figure 17 - 12 : the square page in shop manager. figure 17 - 13 : make an in - person sale. chapter 18 figure 18 - 1 : the etsy forums. figure 18 - 2 : an etsy forum. figure 18 - 3 : an etsy discussion. figure 18 - 4 : reply to a post. figure 18 - 5 : create a new discussion in an etsy forum. figure 18 - 6 : view your forum subscriptions and bookmarks. figure 18 - 7 : search for a team. figure 18 - 8 : an etsy teams page. chapter 19 figure 19 - 1 : the etsy journal. figure 19 - 2 : read a post on the etsy journal. figure 19 - 3 : sign up for etsy email newsletters here. figure 19 - 4 : “ follow ” etsy on twitter. figure 19 - 5 : etsy prototypes. chapter 20 figure 20 - 1 : the etsy help center. figure 20 - 2 : view your matches. figure 20 - 3 : read a help article. figure 20 - 4 : contact etsy support. figure 20 - 5 : contact etsy support. figure 20 - 6 : the seller handbook. figure 20 - 7 : click an article to open it. figure 20 - 8 : accessing saved articles in the seller handbook. introduction does this sound like you? you hate your day job. you trained as a teacher, but what you really want to do all day is knit. or you wait tables, but you dream of starting your own jewelry - making business. or your background is in law, but what you really love is constructing handbags out of gum wrappers. there ’ s just one problem : you have bills to pay. it ’ s not like you can just ditch your day job to hand - craft sweaters or earrings or purses, right? wrong. thanks to etsy ( ), www. etsy. com plenty of people have done just that. and armed with the information in starting an etsy business for dummies, 4th edition, you can, too! what ’ s etsy? etsy was created in 2005 to help artists and craftspeople sell their handmade wares online. since then, etsy has evolved to allow the sale of vintage items and craft supplies. etsy allows creative types to channel their passion for their craft into their life ’ s work. if your dream is to “ make a living making things, ” etsy — and this book — are for you! about this book starting an etsy business for dummies, 4th edition, is a reference tool. you don ’ t have to read it from beginning to end ; instead ; you can turn to any part of the book that gives you the information you need when you need it. and you can keep coming back to the book over and over. on the other hand, if you prefer to read things in order, you ’ ll find that the information is presented in a natural, logical progression. sometimes we have information that we want to share with you, but it relates only tangentially to the topic at hand. when that happens, we place that information in a sidebar ( a shaded gray box ). even though it may not be mission critical, we think you ’ ll find it worth knowing. but you don ’ t have to read it to understand the essentials of etsy. within this book, you may note that some web addresses break across two lines of text. if you ’ re reading this book in print and want to visit one of these web pages, simply key in the web address exactly as it ’ s noted in the text, as though the line break doesn ’ t exist. if you ’ re reading this as an e - book, you ’ ve got it easy — just tap or click the web address to be taken directly to the web page. foolish assumptions when writing this book, we made some assumptions about you, dear reader. we assume that you want to run your etsy shop as a proper business. sure, it ’ s possible to build and manage an etsy shop with minimal effort, but doing so will yield only minimal results. we ’ re guessing that you ’ re serious about making your etsy shop a success and that you ’ re willing to invest the time and energy to make that happen. we also generally assume that you reside in the united states. although most of the information discussed applies regardless of your geographic location, certain tidbits — such as matters related to taxation — are specific to u. s. residents. icons used in this book icons are those little pictures you see in the margins throughout this book, and they ’ re meant to draw your attention to key points that can help you along the way. here ’ s a list of the icons we use and what they signify. when you see this icon in the margin, the paragraph next to it contains valuable information on making your life as an etsy seller easier. some information is so important that it needs to be set apart for emphasis. this icon — like a string tied around your finger — is a friendly reminder of info that you ’ ll want to commit to memory and use over the long haul. this icon highlights common mistakes that etsy sellers make and pitfalls to avoid. an important part of achieving success is simply eliminating mistakes ; the information marked by this icon helps you do just that. beyond the book in addition to the material in the print or e - book you ’ re reading right now, this product also comes with some access - anywhere goodies on the web. check out the free cheat sheet by entering this book ’ s title in the search box at for tips on creating an eye - catching etsy www. dummies. com storefront, pricing your work, taking beautiful product photos, and more. where to go from here glance through the table of contents and find the part, chapter, or section that flips your switch. that ’ s the best way to begin. if you ’ re just trying to find out how to get a sense of what ’ s available for purchase on etsy, turn straight to chapter 3. if you ’ re itching to launch your own etsy shop, chapter 6 walks you through the process of building it from scratch. if your shop is up and running but you ’ re not sure how to handle business matters — say, paying taxes or choosing the right structure for your business — you ’ ll want to flip right to chapter 16. when you ’ ve finished reading this book, invest some time perusing the etsy journal ( ), reading the seller handbook https : / / blog. etsy. com / ( ), and interacting with the larger etsy www. etsy. com / sellerhandbook community ( get started at ). as your https : / / community. etsy. com / business grows, you ’ ll undoubtedly encounter issues that this book doesn ’ t discuss ; when that happens, you ’ re sure to appreciate these incredible resources. part 1 getting started with etsy in this part … find out what etsy is all about. sign up for and manage an etsy account. check out what etsy has for sale. get the 411 on staying safe on etsy. chapter 1 handmade for each other : falling in love with etsy in this chapter understanding etsy ’ s purpose and how etsy makes money signing up for and navigating etsy setting up your etsy shop and understanding the selling process exploring the etsy community introducing the etsy apps launched in 2005, etsy is a website where artisans and craftspeople can sell their wares online. basically, the site — which describes itself as “ the global marketplace for unique and creative goods ” — enables artistic types to parlay their passion into their life ’ s work. but etsy is more than that. in addition to providing a platform for e - commerce, the brooklyn - based company also hosts a thriving international community of creators — a community with a shared set of values, including having a commitment to their craft, minimizing waste, embracing differences, digging deeper, and leading with optimism. “ in a time of increasing automation, ” say the folks at etsy, “ it ’ s our mission to keep human connection at the heart of commerce. ” for even more details on etsy, click the read our wonderfully weird story link to open the site ’ s about page. in addition to articulating etsy ’ s main mission, this page provides links for buyers and sellers to additional information and resources, a link to the site ’ s help center, and links to the etsy news blog and the investor relations page. having picked up this book, you ’ re probably interested in joining this community of creators. to get you started, this chapter offers you a bird ’ s - eye view of etsy — its purpose and business model, how to sign up for the site and navigate it, and all sorts of good stuff about opening and running your own shop. creative crusade : understanding etsy ’ s purpose and business model some people think of etsy as a sort of ebay for handmade goods. and you can see why : people use both etsy and ebay to buy stuff from other individuals. also, both sites charge listing fees and make a small commission on every sale. plus, members use feedback to rate their transactions. but the sites differ in big ways, too : although etsy is growing — as of this writing, the site boasts 7. 4 million sellers and more than 90 million buyers, and in 2021 it yielded $ 13. 5 billion in gross sales — it ’ s still the proverbial mouse to ebay ’ s proverbial elephant. whereas ebay uses an auction format, etsy doesn ’ t. instead, it connects buyers directly with sellers through its online marketplace. whereas ( almost ) anything goes on ebay, etsy was created specifically to enable artists and craftspeople to sell their handmade wares online. over time, however, the site has evolved to empower a broader array of small business owners and makers. you ’ ll find out more about what you can and can ’ t sell on etsy in chapter 5. etsy stays afloat by charging sellers a fee for each item listed on the site. at this time, the listing fee is $ 0. 20 per item, which etsy assesses when the item is listed. etsy also collects a transaction fee from the seller for each item sold — currently 6. 5 percent of the total price of the item, plus the amount you charge for gift - wrapping and shipping or any other charges ( if applicable ). etsy also charges a fee to process payments ; this fee is assessed based on the total amount of the sale, including tax and shipping. ( the precise amount of this fee depends on the location of your bank account. for sellers whose bank is in the u. s., the fee is 3 percent of the total sale, plus $ 0. 25. ) finally, etsy offers various fee - based services to help you manage and grow your shop, like etsy shipping labels ( see chapter 13 ), advertising ( see chapter 14 ), etsy plus ( see chapter 17 ), and pattern ( see chapter 17 ). you can pay these fees in one of several ways : by using a credit card that you put on file with etsy ; by using your paypal account ; or by having the amount deducted from any sales you ’ ve made. ( if your sales balance is zero or negative, then you ’ ll have an amount due. ) we talk more about etsy fees in chapters 12 and 16. introducing the world of etsy just what can you do on etsy? and how do you use the site? this section scratches the surface. ( you find the nitty - gritty, step - by - step info about these topics in later chapters. ) registering with etsy you don ’ t need to register with etsy to scope out what goodies are for sale. but if you ’ re in the market to buy any of said goodies — or to communicate with other etsy members or participate in the site ’ s community features — you need to create an account with the site. fortunately, creating an account is simple and free. you just enter your name and email address and choose a username and password. you don ’ t even need to supply a credit card number! if you plan to use etsy to sell your own items, you need to take a few more steps as well as provide a major credit card ( think mastercard, visa, discover, or american express ) and other vitals, such as your bank routing and account number and your address. for step - by - step coverage of completing the registration process and signing in to your etsy account, turn to chapter 2. chapter 6 covers the steps you need to take to become an etsy seller. navigating the etsy home page whether you ’ re buying or selling, exploring or researching, etsy ’ s home page is your home base. it ’ s the page that appears when you go to. you can also access etsy ’ s home page from anywhere on www. etsy. com the etsy site by clicking the etsy logo in the upper - left corner of each etsy marketplace page. ( we explain why we say “ etsy marketplace ” here in a sec. ) the etsy home page, shown in figure 1 - 1, features several important sections. these include the following. ( note that this section assumes that you ’ re not signed in to your etsy account. you ’ ll see additional options if you are logged in — and even more if you have set up your etsy shop. we talk more about these options in the next few sections and in chapters 2 and 7. ) a standard search box, for when you know what you ’ re looking for a set of links along the top, which you can click to browse items in popular categories and sign into your etsy account a series of editors ’ picks for top etsy items links to recent etsy journal blog posts a “ what is etsy? ” section, with links to additional resources access to etsy ’ s help center source : etsy. com figure 1 - 1 : etsy ’ s home page. understanding your account and shop manager after you create your etsy account ( see chapter 2 ) and set up your shop ( see chapter 6 ), and assuming you ’ re logged into the site, you can access settings for your account and your shop from the links along the top of any etsy marketplace page. ( see figure 1 - 2. ) source : etsy. com figure 1 - 2 : the shop manager and your account links. the your account menu ( see figure 1 - 3 ) contains a series of links that provide access to all sorts of useful info — your public profile, your gift card balance, messages to and from other etsy users, special offers just for you, items you ’ ve bought and reviews you ’ ve left, and your account settings, as well as a sign out option. if you have not yet set up your etsy shop, you ’ ll also see a sell on etsy link. for help navigating your account, turn to chapter 2. chapter 7 covers shop manager. source : etsy. com figure 1 - 3 : your account. shop manager is where you, well, manage your shop. it contains a dashboard that provides you with key shop stats at a glance ( see figure 1 - 4 ), as well as links to tools to create and manage listings, send and receive messages, keep track of orders and shipping, view stats, handle your finances, run marketing campaigns, and more. you can find out more about navigating the shop manager in chapter 7. source : etsy. com figure 1 - 4 : shop manager. notice in figure 1 - 4 that shop manager has no header bar, which means you have no easy access to the various links that appear on the header bar on every etsy marketplace page. to access those links, you have to switch from shop manager to the etsy marketplace. to do so, click the shop manager link in the upper - left corner of the shop manager page. then choose etsy marketplace from the list that appears. etsy uses the term etsy marketplace to describe the area on the site where buyers can find items listed for sale. the part of the site geared toward sellers is called the shop manager. discovering what ’ s for sale on etsy etsy features unique items — goodies you simply can ’ t find anywhere else — along with supplies for crafting your own pieces. in fact, etsy offers an incredible breadth of items for sale, from accessories to ceramics, jewelry to quilts, and everything in between. to help you find a specific item, etsy offers a robust search tool. you can also use the search tool to locate a particular shop. if you ’ re just browsing, you ’ ll appreciate etsy ’ s many browsing - related features. ( exactly which features are available depends on whether you ’ re logged in to the site. ) you access these tools from etsy ’ s home page. for additional help, see chapter 3. ensuring your safety on etsy no doubt about it, one of the highlights of etsy is its thriving community of interesting, arty folk. but you might run into the occasional user who ’ s not on the up - and - up. take a few key steps to ensure your safety : choose a strong password. a strong password makes it harder for someone to access your account without your authorization. your password should meet all the following criteria : it ’ s at least eight characters long. it doesn ’ t contain your shop ’ s name or your real name. it doesn ’ t contain a complete word. it differs from passwords that you ’ ve used in the past. it contains a mixture of uppercase letters, lowercase letters, numbers, symbols, and spaces. for an added layer of protection, change your password every so often — say, every 30 to 60 days. be on the lookout for scams. scams often occur in the form of suspicious messages with strange requests, odd formatting, or dangerous links. the best advice we can give you to avoid scams is to keep all etsy - related messaging between buyer and seller within the etsy messaging feature, not outside via email or social media. if despite your best efforts you do get taken on etsy, contact your financial institution immediately. then report the situation to etsy. you may also opt to alert your local law enforcement. before you jump into a forum or team discussion, monitor it for a while. see whether the folks engaged in the discussion are people you really want to interact with. if a discussion goes south, simply disengage. play it close to the vest. don ’ t share your digits or other personal details, such as where you live or work, on etsy ’ s forums or other public spaces. oh, and if you decide to meet up with someone you ’ ve met on etsy in person, pick a neutral, public place, let a friend or family member know about your plans, and be sure to bring your phone with you in case you need to call for help. chapter 4 covers important safety issues in more detail. storefront and center : setting up your shop when you set up your etsy shop, you can personalize it by choosing a meaningful shop name uploading a banner and shop logo including a shop title and shop announcement to describe your shop using sections to organize your goods populating your etsy profile, fleshing out your shop ’ s about section, and choosing a profile picture as you set up your shop, keep in mind that a major reason people shop on etsy is to feel connected to the artists who make what they buy. if you want people to buy from you, make sure your etsy shop reflects your personality! for example, do you have a serious disposition? then your shop should, too. ditto if you ’ re whimsical, modern, traditional, edgy, or frilly. let your personality shine through in your choice of banner, shop logo, and other visual features, as well as in your bio and other text - based elements. not only will this increase your sales, it may also help you make some friends along the way. ( for more on setting up your etsy shop, check out chapter 6. ) oh, one more pointer : as you set up your etsy shop, you ’ ll want to clearly lay out your shop policies : whether you charge for shipping ; how long it takes you to process orders ; and so on. we cover shop policies in chapter 8. sell ’ s angels : surveying the etsy selling process maybe you want to do more than buy on etsy. maybe you want to sell. putting up an item for sale on etsy is a simple process : 1. create ( or, if you specialize in selling vintage pieces, curate ) the item you ’ re selling and determine how much you want to charge for it ( with the help of the pointers we provide in chapter 9 ). 2. photograph your piece. you can include as many as ten pictures of each piece in your etsy shop. the photos you provide should convey the shape, size, color, and texture of your piece from various angles, and also be easy on the eye. 3. add a video of your piece. 4. compose a snappy title and description for your item listing. 5. list your item on the site and wait for someone to snatch it up. 6. when the item sells, ship it to the buyer ( after you receive your payment, of course )! okay, that ’ s a broad overview. the process has a little more to it. but trust us : it ’ s nothing you can ’ t handle. check out the chapters in part 3 to get up to speed. takin ’ care of business : handling business matters for some sellers, running an etsy shop is merely a hobby — a way to make a little extra money on the side. for others, it ’ s their day job, or “ what they do. ” regardless of which camp you ’ re in, you need to treat your etsy shop as a proper small business — building a brand, marketing your shop, and providing excellent customer service. if you ’ re in the latter category — someone who seeks to earn a living by selling on etsy — you might choose to do even more. for example, you could incorporate your business, obtain a business checking account, streamline your supply chain, use special tools to analyze your business, and so on. part 4 covers all these topics and more. community collage : engaging in the etsy community sure, etsy is a great place to buy and sell all sorts of neat stuff. but it ’ s more than that : it ’ s a community of creative, crafty people that just begs for participation. etsy offers several tools that help you jump right in, including these : public message boards, called forums teams, for connecting with like - minded etsy members a podcast, for tips on selling you can also follow your favorite shops and sellers to keep up with their goings - on by adding them to your favorites. other great resources for the etsy community include the etsy journal ( ), which acts as a neighborhood newspaper of sorts. www. etsy. com / blog the etsy journey regularly serves up fresh content, with material ranging from information to help you perfect various crafting techniques, to glimpses into the lives of other etsy sellers, and more. etsy ’ s email newsletters are another great source of information and inspiration. and if you ’ re big into social media — like instagram, facebook, pinterest, twitter, and youtube — you can connect with etsy there as well. etsy is super easy to use, but you ’ ll still need a little help sometimes. fortunately, etsy maintains copious resources to help members find answers to all their burning etsy - related questions, including the etsy help center ( ) and the seller www. etsy. com / help handbook ( ). www. etsy. com / seller - handbook ready to dive in? flip to part 5 for all the details on engaging in the etsy community. appy dance : introducing the etsy apps initially, etsy was just a website. these days, it ’ s also an app — two, in fact. there ’ s the etsy app, which places the etsy marketplace ( see figure 1 - 5 ) and your account settings ( see figure 1 - 6 ) in the palm of your hand. you can use this app to browse and shop, and to manage your etsy account. then there ’ s etsy seller, which you can employ as a mobile shop manager. ( see figure 1 - 7. ) you ’ ll quickly find that both these apps — available from the apple app store and google play — are remarkably easy to use! you can easily switch from the etsy app to the etsy seller app ( assuming you have downloaded both apps to your phone and are logged into both ). to do so, tap the you icon on the bottom of any etsy app screen and choose manage your shop. although this book does mention these apps from time to time, it focuses mainly on the etsy website. the good news is, once you learn your way around the etsy website, you ’ ll find the apps pretty intuitive to use. source : etsy. com figure 1 - 5 : the home page of the etsy app. source : etsy. com figure 1 - 6 : the you screen on the etsy app. source : etsy. com figure 1 - 7 : the main page on the etsy seller app. chapter 2 basic training : etsy account basics in this chapter registering for a basic etsy account signing in to your etsy account navigating the etsy marketplace home page managing your etsy account populating your public profile lao tzu, the father of taoism, once said, “ a journey of a thousand miles begins with one step. ” ( he also said, “ silence is a source of great strength ” and “ the sage does not hoard ” ; we ’ re still digesting those. ) on etsy, that one first step is becoming a registered user by signing up with the site. after that, you ’ re ready to embark on your own etsy journey! this chapter gives you all the info you need to register with etsy. it also introduces you to the etsy marketplace home page, shows you how to access your account settings and manage your account, and reveals how to populate your public profile. first, though, it conveys the importance of reading and understanding etsy ’ s policies. avoiding trouble : reviewing etsy ’ s house rules and terms of use when it comes to its rules and policies, etsy doesn ’ t play around. violating any of etsy ’ s policies is grounds for expulsion from the site — and the “ but i didn ’ t know it was a policy! ” defense doesn ’ t fly. so, rather than going to all the trouble of setting up an etsy shop only to have it go poof one day, we urge you to take a moment to peruse the site ’ s house rules and review its terms of use. here ’ s how to find them : 1. scroll to the bottom of any etsy marketplace page ; then, under the about heading, click policies. the our house rules page appears. ( see figure 2 - 1. ) source : etsy. com figure 2 - 1 : the our house rules page. 2. click the buyers, sellers, or third parties link to view etsy ’ s house rules for each group. we cover these rules in more detail in chapter 4. 3. back on the main our house rules page, click the terms of use link. the terms of use page appears. ( see figure 2 - 2. ) etsy ’ s terms of use page is kind of like the site ’ s constitution. it sets out your rights and responsibilities on the site. this 14 - point document covers maintaining your privacy, content requirements, proper use of services, termination, warranties and liability, indemnification, handling disputes, and other important legal - type stuff. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 2 : review etsy ’ s terms of use. sign me up! becoming a registered user anyone can browse etsy to see what goodies are for sale. but if you ’ re in the market to buy, or if you eventually want to open your own shop, you need to create an account with the site by becoming a registered user. assuming you have access to a computer, tablet, or smartphone, and an internet connection, becoming a registered etsy user is super easy ( and free, too )! just follow the guidelines in this section. in addition to being able to purchase items on the site, registered users can keep track of their best - loved items or shops by adding them to their favorites, communicate with other etsy members, and participate in the site ’ s community features. part 5 has more information about all these options. the screen images shown here were captured on a computer. they might look different on a tablet or smartphone. 1. in your web browser ’ s address bar, type and press www. etsy. com enter or return. etsy ’ s home page appears ( see figure 2 - 3 ). 2. click the sign in link in the top - right corner of your screen. a sign in pop - up window opens ( see figure 2 - 4 ). source : etsy. com figure 2 - 3 : etsy ’ s home page. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 4 : the sign in pop - up window. 3. click the register button in the upper - right corner of the sign in pop - up window. a create your account pop - up window opens. ( see figure 2 - 5. ) you can save a few steps by clicking the continue with google, continue with facebook, or continue with apple button to create your etsy account. this section walks you through signing up for etsy the old - fashioned way : by entering your info directly on etsy ’ s site. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 5 : the create your account pop - up window. 4. type your email address in the email address field. 5. type your first name in the first name field. 6. in the password field, type the password you want to use to access your etsy account. select a password that ’ s at least eight characters — one that you can remember easily but that won ’ t be too obvious to anyone else. 7. to read the terms of use, click the terms of use link ; to read etsy ’ s privacy policy, click the privacy policy link. for more on etsy ’ s privacy policy, see chapter 4. 8. click the register button. etsy creates your account and sends a confirmation email to the address you supplied in step 4. if you don ’ t receive the confirmation email right away, check your spam folder to make sure it wasn ’ t intercepted. 9. open the email from etsy and click the link that it contains to confirm your account. you ’ re ready to go! it ’ s a sign : signing in to etsy after you ’ ve created your etsy account, signing into the etsy website is a snap. just go to and click the sign in button in the www. etsy. com upper - right corner of the screen. then, in the pop - up window that appears, type your email address in the email address field, type your password in the password field, and click the sign in button. ( see figure 2 - 6. ) because you are signing in for the very first time, etsy texts a six - digit verification code to the phone number you provided when you registered ; simply enter the code in a second pop - up window and click sign in. ( note : etsy may also send you a verification code the first time you sign in on a new device or in a new location. ) notice the stay signed in check box in figure 2 - 4. if you select this check box, you can navigate away from the site and return to it without having to sign in all over again. however, we don ’ t recommend that you choose this setting if you ’ re on a public computer ( for example, at a library or internet cafe ). otherwise, a complete stranger could access your account! what about signing out? that ’ s even easier than signing in. simply click the your account button that appears in the header bar when you ’ re signed in and choose sign out from the menu that appears. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 6 : use your username or email address and your password to sign in to your etsy account. home sweet home : navigating etsy ’ s home page home. it ’ s a word with many meanings. it ’ s where you live. it ’ s where your heart is. it ’ s where you hang your hat. it ’ s where the cows finally come. simply put, it ’ s a place to which you always long to return. the etsy marketplace home page on the etsy website is no different. as you use the site, you ’ ll often find yourself returning home — to the home page, that is. whether you ’ re buying or selling, exploring or researching, etsy ’ s home page is your home base. you ’ ve already seen the etsy marketplace home page. it ’ s the page that appears when you type into your web browser. ( refer to figure 2 - 3. ) http : / / www. etsy. com / don ’ t freak out if your home page doesn ’ t match up exactly with what we show in this chapter. etsy regularly experiments with the layout and contents of its home page. the first thing you see when you visit the etsy marketplace home page is item listings — and lots of them. if you ’ re logged into etsy your account, many of these listings will be tailored to your tastes, based on your activity on the site. ( see figure 2 - 7. ) other listings are promoted by etsy sellers, and still more are recommended by etsy ’ s own editors. chapter 3 covers these listings in more detail. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 7 : the etsy marketplace home page offers easy access to listings and myriad site features, and it ’ s easy on the eyes, too. at the very top of the home page — as well as every other etsy marketplace page — is a header bar. this header bar contains an etsy logo on the left side, which acts as a home link ; you can click it on any etsy marketplace page to return to the home page. if you ’ re not signed in, you ’ ll also see a sign in link and a cart link. if you are signed in, you ’ ll see a few different links, including the following : favorites : click this to see shops or items you ’ ve added to your favorites list. ( see chapter 20 for more details. ) updates : if you ’ ve bought from a shop, favorited a shop, or favorited item, click this link to see updates on them, like if they ’ ve listed new items or if they ’ re running a sale or offering a promo code. your account : click this link to open a menu that offers easy access to your profile, purchases and reviews, gift card balance, messages, offers, account settings, and more. ( see the next section for more info. ) if you are logged in and have set up your etsy shop, there will be one more link : in the header bar : the shop manager link. clicking this link opens the main shop manager page. chapter 7 covers the ins and outs of using shop manager. etsy ’ s header bar includes one more important feature : a search field. when you know just what you ’ re looking for, you can search for it using that field. for more info on searching, see chapter 3. below the header bar, but above the listings, you see a series of category links. you can click a category link to view listings in that category. alternatively, you can hover your mouse pointer over a category link to view subcategories and even sub - subcategories. chapter 3 talks about categories in more detail. scrolling down the etsy marketplace home page, you find a section labeled “ fresh from the blog. ” ( see figure 2 - 8. ) this section contains direct links to newly posted content in etsy ’ s blog, called the etsy journal. for example, you might see a link to an article about a particular etsy shop or to a curated shopping guide. if one of the links piques your interest, click it to read the post ; or click the fresh from the blog link to access older posts. chapter 19 covers the etsy journal in more detail. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 8 : keep up with the etsy journal. at the bottom of every etsy marketplace page, including the home page, is a series of useful links ( see figure 2 - 9 ), categorized as follows : shop : this section contains links to shopping - related site features, like gift cards, a sitemap ( which contains links to every category on the site ), and the etsy journal. there are also links to the etsy marketplace for shoppers in the uk, germany, and canada. sell : in this section, you find seller - oriented links. if you haven ’ t set up your shop yet, you ’ ll see a sell on etsy link, which you can click to get started. if you have set up your shop, you ’ ll see a link to etsy ’ s seller handbook ( discussed in chapter 20 ). there are also links to etsy ’ s teams and forums pages ( see chapter 18 for more info ), and to information about etsy ’ s affiliate program, which is designed to encourage social media influencers to highlight items on etsy. about : maybe you just want to find out a little bit more about etsy. if so, you can use the links in this section. help : the links in this section offer quick access to etsy ’ s help center ( covered in chapter 20 ), to information about the site ’ s purchase protection program, and to your account ’ s privacy settings. as shown in figure 2 - 9, there is also a link to download the etsy apps ( available for apple and android devices ) in case you ’ re looking to unshackle yourself from your desk and venture out into the wide world. ( we talk more about both these apps throughout this book. ) and there are links to connect with etsy on instagram, facebook, pinterest, twitter, and youtube. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 9 : footer links offer easy access to tons of etsy info and features. speaking of the etsy app, if you ’ ve installed it on your mobile device, you ’ ll notice that the home screen looks a bit different from the one on the etsy website. ( see figure 2 - 10. ) fear not : it has many of the same features and is extremely intuitive to use. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 10 : the etsy app home screen looks different but offers many of the same features as the etsy marketplace home page. it ’ s all you : exploring the your account menu earlier we mentioned the your account menu. this menu is your etsy portal to all things … well, all things you. from this menu, shown in figure 2 - 11, you can choose from the following options : view your profile : select this option to populate your public profile. ( more on your profile later in this chapter. ) purchases and reviews : etsy keeps track of everything you buy on the site. to view this information, you select this menu option. see chapter 3 for more about reviewing your purchases. gift card balance : if you ’ ve been so lucky as to receive an etsy gift card, you ’ ll see its balance here. you can also select this menu option to redeem the gift card. for more on redeeming gift cards, see chapter 3. messages : when one etsy user wants to communicate with another, they use etsy ’ s internal communication channel to send a message. to access and manage your messages, select this menu option. for more on messages, see chapter 15. your offers : some shops give special offers to their customers or send discounts to say thank you after you make a purchase. select this menu option to view these special offers. your impact : click this for an assessment of the positive impact you ’ ve made by shopping on etsy. account settings : select this option to open the account settings page. this page contains several tabs, each with a series of settings and options to help you manage your account. we talk more about managing your account settings in the next section. sign out : you choose this option to sign out of your etsy account. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 11 : the your account menu provides easy access to all things you. as shown in figure 2 - 12, the corresponding menu in the etsy app ( called the you menu rather than the your account menu ) offers slightly different options, in a slightly different order, and sometimes with slightly different names. but its functionality is similar. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 12 : the your account menu on the etsy app. account trackula : managing your etsy account as you ’ ve no doubt noticed, the your account menu includes an account settings option. clicking this option provides access to the following account - related pages : account : this page ( see figure 2 - 13 ), shown by default when you click account settings in the your account menu, is where you change your password, update your email account, and close ( but not permanently delete ) your etsy account. you can also connect your etsy account to your facebook, google, and twitter accounts so that your friends can find you on etsy. ( see chapter 14 for more info. ) public profile : you use this page, shown in figure 2 - 14, to populate your public profile. ( see the next section for details. ) source : etsy. com figure 2 - 13 : the account page. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 14 : the public profile page. preferences : in this page, shown in figure 2 - 15, you establish your default language and currency. you also indicate your region ( so that etsy can send you customized content ) and whether you ’ re open to receiving postal mail, phone calls, or both from etsy. if you change any settings in this page, simply click the update preferences button at the bottom of the page to enact them. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 15 : the preferences page. privacy : privacy is important! that ’ s why etsy includes various settings to protect yours. ( see figure 2 - 16. ) these include options to clear recently viewed listings, download a zip file of your etsy personal information, and permanently close and delete your etsy account. other settings pertain to findability, consent for cookies, and personalized advertising. if you change any settings in this page, simply click the update settings button at the bottom of the page to enact them. for more on protecting your privacy on etsy, see chapter 4. security : related to privacy is security. on etsy, you can help ensure your security by taking advantage of two - factor authentication and reviewing your sign - in and device histories. these settings and histories appear in the security page, shown in figure 2 - 17. chapter 4 covers security on etsy in more detail. addresses : to add a new shipping address, edit an existing one, remove an old one, or change the default, visit the addresses page, shown in figure 2 - 18. ( note : it ’ s super important to keep your address up to date! otherwise, anything you buy on the site could get shipped to an old address. ) source : etsy. com figure 2 - 16 : the privacy page. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 17 : the security page. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 18 : the addresses page. credit cards : this page, shown in figure 2 - 19, enables you to manage any credit cards you ’ ve used to purchase items on etsy. although you can ’ t use this page to enter a new credit card — that option is available only when you purchase an item on etsy — you can use it to edit or remove any existing cards as well as set a default card. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 19 : the credit cards page. emails : when it comes to receiving emails, etsy gives you lots of choices. some relate to notifications. for example, you can choose to be notified when someone sends you a message. others are newsletters — for example, the new and notable newsletter, which shares trends, recommendations, and upcoming events ; and the my seller activity newsletter, which imparts insights on successful shopkeeping. you select which emails you want to receive from the emails page, shown in figure 2 - 20. ( for more on keeping up with etsy news, see chapter 19. ) source : etsy. com figure 2 - 20 : the emails page. for what it ’ s worth, we advise sellers to subscribe to all the emails etsy sends out. it ’ s a great way to stay on top of what etsy is promoting to buyers so that you can piggyback on their strategies! you probably noticed that these pages are part of the shop manager, even though they don ’ t pertain to shop settings per se. we know — we find this confusing, too. best not to think too much about it. in any case, we cover shop manager much more thoroughly in chapter 7. the settings page on the etsy app contains slightly different options from the account settings tabs on the etsy website. as shown in figure 2 - 21, it features selections to adjust your push notification settings, access your privacy settings, manage your shipping address, change the appearance of the etsy app on your phone, select your preferred language and currency, select a different icon for the app, read details about the app, and sign out of the app. source : etsy. com figure 2 - 21 : the etsy app settings menu. high profile : setting up your public profile everyone who joins etsy has a public profile page. why? because being able to check out other etsy members helps to inspire confidence in the site and the people who buy and sell on it. an etsy profile can ( but doesn ’ t have to ) include a profile picture, your first name, your gender, your city, your birthday, a brief bio, and a list of your favorite materials. anyone who visits your etsy shop can access your public profile by clicking your name or profile picture on any page in your etsy shop. to populate your etsy public profile, follow these steps : 1. click the your account menu in the header bar and choose view your profile. 2. click the edit profile link. the public profile page opens. ( refer to figure 2 - 14. ) 3. to add a personalized profile picture, click the choose file button. a standard open dialog box appears. 4. locate and select the photo you want to use. avatar hero : choosing a profile picture your profile picture, or avatar, isn ’ t just something people see when they peruse your profile page or visit your shop. it represents you across the site. when you post on a forum, your profile photo appears next to that post. ditto when you comment on a post in the etsy journal or join an etsy team. you want to select a profile photo that reflects well on you. so what type of image should you choose? etsy urges you to select one that shows your face because doing so helps to build trust. just make sure the photo isn ’ t blurry ( no “ bigfoot sighting ” – style photos ), that it ’ s well lit, and that your mug covers at least 70 percent of the frame. also, the photo must be a jpeg, gif, or png file, must be smaller 10mb, and at least 400 x 400 pixels. 5. indicate your gender. if you prefer to keep that information private, select the rather not say option button. alternatively, click custom, and type a more accurate or personal descriptor. 6. type your city in the city field. as you type, etsy displays a list of matching locales ; click your town in the list to select it. by entering your city, you enable etsy buyers near you to find your shop in local search listings. also, your listings will feature a special “ local seller ” badge in search results for etsy users in your area. 7. use the month and day drop - down lists to enter your birthday. 8. type a brief bio in the about box. 9. in the favorite materials box, indicate which materials you like to use, separating entries with a comma and a space. you can add as many as 13. 10. if you want your profile to include your shop, any favorite items or shops, and any teams you ’ ve joined, leave the check boxes at the bottom of the screen selected. biohazard : writing a winning bio for many people, the idea of writing anything — let alone about themselves — is about as enticing as spelunking in yucca mountain. but if you plan to sell on etsy, a succinct, clever, well - written bio is essential to the success of your etsy shop. your bio enables buyers to see who they ’ re buying from. it turns you into a bona fide human being in your buyers ’ eyes. if writing your bio seems a bit daunting, don ’ t freak out. it ’ s a process, same as with tackling any other challenge. you can start by writing down the answers to a few key questions : who are you? what ’ s your educational or artistic background? what do you make or sell? what are you passionate about? who or what inspires you? with the answers to these questions in hand, you ’ re ready to write your bio. try to incorporate some of these tips : say hello. it ’ s just the nice thing to do. be friendly and approachable. this strategy will yield substantially better results than taking the opposite tack — being rude and inaccessible. stick with first - person point of view. some people write their bio in first person. others opt for third person. our view? unless you ’ re the queen, go with first person. keep it short. it ’ s your etsy bio, not war and peace. a few short paragraphs will do. if you find your bio running a little long, try using sections, with titles, to break up your information. proofread. before you post your bio, triple - check it to make sure it has no spelling or grammatical errors. better yet, ask your english - major friend to check it for you. 11. click the save changes button. etsy saves the changes you made to your profile. 12. to get an idea of how your info will appear to others, click the view profile button in the top - right area of the page. then click the about your name link. etsy previews how your profile will appear to others. ( see figure 2 - 22. ) source : etsy. com figure 2 - 22 : preview your profile. chapter 3 buy, buy, buy : finding and buying items on etsy in this chapter finding items on etsy and assessing a seller understanding transactions and leaving feedback resolving issues when a purchase goes awry if you ’ ve done everything the first two chapter cover, you ’ ve set up your etsy account, explored your account settings, and gotten your bearings on the site ’ s home page home. after all that work, you deserve a break! you know as well as we do that there ’ s no better way to recharge than to engage in a little retail therapy. and there ’ s no better way to engage in a little retail therapy than to shop — you guessed it — on etsy. in this chapter, you discover how and why to buy on etsy. gimme one reason : why to buy on etsy why buy on etsy? simple : where else are you going to find a handmade bracelet featuring images of the golden girls cast in resin? even if you don ’ t maintain a shrine to betty white in your foyer, you can find plenty of compelling reasons to buy on etsy. here are just a few : etsy features loads of unique, one - of - a - kind handmade and vintage items — goodies you simply can ’ t find anywhere else. etsy offers an incredible breadth of items for sale, from accessories to ceramics, from jewelry to quilts, and everything in between. if you ’ re in the market for craft supplies, etsy is for you. at last count, etsy ’ s craft supplies category listed more than 18 million items, including beads, buttons, fabric, yarn, paper, stamps, and more. many sellers on etsy are artists and craftspeople. when you buy directly from them, you ’ re supporting their efforts. buying on etsy can make you a savvier seller. as a customer, you ’ ll develop an eye for which selling practices work and which don ’ t. needle in a haystack : finding the perfect item asking how many items are for sale on the etsy marketplace on any given day is a little like asking how many licks it takes to get to the tootsie roll center of a tootsie pop. that is, it ’ s hard to say, exactly. but sources indicate that the number of etsy items is somewhere around 120 million. on the one hand, that ’ s great! it means that no matter what you ’ re looking for, you have a good chance of finding it on etsy. but it ’ s also bad — because how do you locate that one, unique, perfect item when you have 45 million to choose from? talk about finding the proverbial needle in the proverbial haystack! fortunately, etsy offers myriad ways to find stuff. you can use the site ’ s robust search tool, browse item categories, peruse personalized picks, or view items curated by etsy ’ s editors. commissioning custom items etsy sellers who are open to receiving custom orders can add a request custom order link to the left side of their shop ’ s main page. if you see this link on your favorite shop ’ s page, click it to send a message to the seller about the item you ’ d like to commission. if you don ’ t see a request custom order link, fret not. you can always send a message to the seller to inquire. they may say no, but hey, it never hurts to ask! using etsy ’ s search tool if you ’ ve landed on etsy with the idea of finding a specific item or certain pieces that relate to a particular theme — say, rainbow suspenders or a reclaimed barn wood unicycle — you ’ ll be grateful for the site ’ s robust search tool. you can also use it to locate a particular item as well as a certain shop. to use the search tool, follow these steps : 1. type a keyword or phrase in the search field that appears in the header bar of every etsy marketplace page. as you type, etsy displays links for items or shop names that may constitute a good match ( see figure 3 - 1 ). source : etsy. com figure 3 - 1 : type a keyword or phrase in the search field. 2. if one of the search suggestions matches what you ’ re looking for, click it to view a list of relevant items. alternatively, click the search button or press the enter or return key on your keyboard. etsy returns a list of items that match your criteria. ( see figure 3 - 2. ) 3. to refine your search, click the all filters button near the top of the page. 4. select options in the filters pane that appears to narrow your search and then click apply. you can view items in a certain category ( more on those in a minute ), in a particular price range, or of a specific color, style, or type, and so on. 5. to sort the search results, click the sort by down arrow and choose relevancy, lowest price, highest price, top customer reviews, or most recent. source : etsy. com figure 3 - 2 : etsy displays your search results. 6. click an item in the list to view the item ’ s listing. etsy opens the listing, as shown in figure 3 - 3. source : etsy. com figure 3 - 3 : open the listing. if your search efforts fail to yield useful results — for example, etsy returns too many matches — try using multiple descriptive words together to yield more specific results. ( etsy ’ s example is green knit scarf. ) more often than not, the items that appear at the tippy top of your search results are ads. that is, sellers paid extra to ensure that their goods surfaced for your search. you ’ ll also see ads sprinkled throughout your search results. ( all ads are clearly marked “ ad by etsy seller. ” ) browsing etsy searching is great when you know what you ’ re looking for. but what if you ’ re trolling for ideas or you just prefer to browse? enter : etsy categories. items listed on etsy are organized into several broad categories : jewelry & accessories, clothing & shoes, home & living, wedding & party, toys & entertainment, art & collectibles, and craft supplies. you ’ ll also see a seasonal link, which changes throughout the year. ( at the time of this writing, it ’ s gifts for every valentine. ) every page in the etsy marketplace, including the home page, contains links for each of these categories. ( there are also home favorites and gift & gift cards links in the same area as the category links ; we touch on these a little later. ) if you want to see listings for items in one of these broad categories — say, home & living — simply click the category link along the top of any etsy marketplace page. if, however, you want to browse in a more granular fashion — for example, you ’ re in the market for some throw pillows — hover your mouse pointer over the category link ( home & living ) to view a menu of subcategories, and then click the subcategory link for the type of item you ’ re looking to buy ( decorative pillows, for example ). ( see figure 3 - 4. ) source : etsy. com figure 3 - 4 : drill down to the type of items you want to see. etsy displays a page that contains listings for items of the type you selected ( see figure 3 - 5 ) ; you can click any listing on the page to open it. source : etsy. com figure 3 - 5 : etsy displays listings in the chosen category, subcategory, or sub - subcategory. the etsy marketplace home page also features a recommended categories for you section, with a personalized set of links to categories you may like. to access a page containing links to every category and subcategory on etsy, click the sitemap link in the shop section of the footer area at the bottom of any etsy marketplace page. perusing personalized picks the etsy marketplace doesn ’ t just sell one - of - a - kind items. it generates a one - of - a - kind home page, too — displaying listings picked just for you, based on your site activity and on your favorite listings and shops. your etsy marketplace home page may include any or all of the following sections with unique - to - you listings : sponsored by etsy sellers : a custom collection of listings sponsored by etsy sellers appears here. your recent activity : this contains recently viewed listings. it also suggests other listings based on your recent activity. shops we think you ’ ll love : based on listings and shops you ’ ve already favorited, etsy generates a personalized catalog of shops that may pique your interest. based on your activity : fresh listings from shops you ’ ve visited, favorited, or purchased from appear here. recommended categories for you : as mentioned, this section of the etsy marketplace home page contains a personalized set of links to categories you may like. deals : etsy unearths deals that are likely to pique your interest and displays them here. some of these areas may not appear on your etsy marketplace home page, depending on whether you ’ ve favorited any listings or shops ( see chapter 20 ), you ’ ve cleared your recently viewed listings ( see chapter 4 ), or you ’ re not signed in ( see chapter 2 ). viewing editors ’ picks as you scroll down the etsy marketplace home page, you ’ ll notice that it devotes considerable real estate to editors ’ picks. these are curated collections of listings assembled by the editors at etsy — a. k. a., in etsy ’ s own words, “ the most discerning and best - dressed people who work here. ” these intrepid editors search “ one - of - a - kind shops far and wide ” to dig up all the choicest goodies on etsy. if you ’ re new to the etsy marketplace, perusing the editors ’ picks is a great way to see the very best the site has to offer. some editors ’ picks collections may focus on new listings ( see figure 3 - 6 ). others may highlight listings in a particular category, like weddings, jewelry, pets, home goods, and more. still others may be seasonal — for example, holiday themed. the home favorites link to the left of the category links offers quick access to editors ’ picks for home goods. and clicking the gifts & gift certificates link to the right of the category links directs you to the etsy gift guide, which contains editors ’ picks for gifts organized by recipient, occasion, and price, as well as top - selling and top - rated gifts. buying gift cards sometimes the perfect item isn ’ t an item at all ; it ’ s a gift card. etsy offers gift cards in denominations of $ 25, $ 50, $ 100, and $ 250. you can email a gift card directly to the recipient or print it for an in - person or snail - mail handoff. to purchase a gift certificate, hover your mouse pointer over the gift & gift cards link to the right of the category links and choose shop gift cards. then select the desired denomination, choose a delivery method, enter the requested info, and click add to cart. finally, check out as normal. ( see the section “ transaction oriented : delving into transactions, ” later in this chapter, for details. ) source : etsy. com figure 3 - 6 : see listings hand - picked by etsy ’ s editors. what ’ s up? confirming that a seller is on the up - and - up you ’ ll find that the vast majority of sellers on etsy are stand - up people. still, no one likes to get burned by a bad sale — even if etsy does offer a purchase protection program ( discussed later in this chapter ). one easy way to assess a seller ’ s standing is to check their shop ’ s rating. if the rating is at least four stars, you can reasonably assume that the seller is on the up - and - up — especially if they have a lot of sales. you view a shop ’ s star rating and total sales near the top of its main page. ( see figure 3 - 7. ) source : etsy. com figure 3 - 7 : check a shop ’ s rating. reading reviews is another good way to gauge a seller ’ s reputation. if a seller ’ s reviews glow like j - lo, you can probably proceed without fear. if not, you may want to reconsider your purchase. to read a seller ’ s reviews, click the star rating on their shop page or any item listing. finally, etsy offers one more easy way to separate the wheat from the chaff : badges. anytime a seller meets certain criteria, etsy adds a special badge to their main etsy shop page and to each of their listings, to increase buyer confidence. the badges are as follows : smooth shipping : sellers who consistently ship on time receive this badge. speedy replies : etsy awards this badge to sellers who reply to messages quickly. rave reviews : sellers whose ratings are 4. 8 stars or higher earn this badge. star seller : this is for sellers who pull a triple - triple, earning a rave reviews, speedy replies, and smooth shipping badge. figure 3 - 8 shows a shop with each of these badges. source : etsy. com figure 3 - 8 : a star seller badge inspires confidence in the seller. if you ’ re still not sure, read up on the seller by clicking their name or avatar in the upper - right corner of their shop page and then clicking the about seller name link in the upper - left corner of their profile page. also take a gander at the shop ’ s policies to make sure they seem fair. to do so, scroll down to the shop policies section of the shop page or click the view shop policies button below the item description on any of the seller ’ s listings. transaction oriented : delving into transaction details as you browse or search the gazillion items available for sale on etsy, you ’ re bound to find a thing or two ( or 7, 968 ) that you simply can ’ t live without. to purchase any item on etsy, follow these steps : 1. click the add to cart button found on the listing page for the item you want to buy ( refer to figure 3 - 3 ). etsy displays your shopping cart ( see figure 3 - 9 ). note : when you purchase some items, you ’ ll be prompted to supply additional information, such as size, quantity, or color, before adding them to your card. if you are absolutely, positively sure you want the item, you can click buy it now instead of add to cart to speed up the purchase process. source : etsy. com figure 3 - 9 : the item appears in your shopping cart. got cold feet? no worries. you can remove the item from your cart by clicking the remove link in the shopping cart page. if you think you want the item, but you ’ re not a thousand percent sure, click the save for later link. the next time you open your shopping cart, you ’ ll have the option to move the item back into it. or if you ’ re pretty sure you want the item, but you have some questions about it, click the contact shop link ( above the item price ) to send a message to the shop owner. ( flip to chapter 15 for more on messages. ) and, of course, you can always add the item to your favorites. 2. click view cart & check out. alternatively, if you want to continue shopping, click the keep shopping link. you can return to your cart at any time by clicking the cart link that appears on the right side of the header bar at the top of every etsy marketplace page. 3. do any ( or all ) of the following : if the item is a gift, select the this order is a gift check box under the listing photo to remove the prices from the packing slip. when you select this check box, a second check box appears : add gift message for free. if you select this check box, too, a text box appears where you can type your message. some sellers offer gift wrapping. if your seller does, a third check box will appear : add gift wrapping for $ dollar amount. select this check box if you want the item to be wrapped. type a note to the seller in the notes section. you may do this if you want to make a special request or you have a unique specification. in addition, some sellers may ask you to leave certain details about your order here — for example, personalization information. check the estimated delivery date, to the right of the add a note box, and perhaps choose a different shipping option. some etsy sellers offer different shipping options. if your seller does, you ’ ll see a drop - down list under the apply shop coupon codes link. choose the shipping option you prefer ; the estimated delivery date changes based on your selection. click the apply shop coupon codes link, enter a coupon code, and click apply. some etsy sellers issue coupon codes for their shops. for example, you may obtain a shop coupon code from a seller ’ s blog or newsletter, or from their shop page. or it may appear in your updates menu if you ’ ve shopped with that seller before. click the apply etsy coupon code link, enter the coupon code, and click apply. sometimes etsy offers its own coupon codes. these are different from shop coupon codes. they are funded completely by etsy. 4. click proceed to checkout. this step assumes that you ’ ll use etsy payments to settle up. if you want to use paypal instead, click that button and follow the prompts. 5. on the choose a shipping address page, choose a shipping address. alternatively, click add a new one and enter the requested info. then click the ship here button. 6. on the choose a payment method page, click a payment option. optionally, click add a new card to add a new debit or credit card ( etsy accepts visa, mastercard, american express, or discover ). alternatively, select a card you ’ ve already added. for sellers who accept etsy payments, you can also pay using an etsy gift card or etsy credit ( click the redeem a gift card or etsy credit link ), with paypal ( click the pay with paypal button ), or with google pay ( click the pay with google pay button ). note : sellers in some countries cannot use etsy payments, however. these sellers accept paypal only. if the order costs more than $ 50, you can divide payment into installments using klarna ( if you ’ re eligible, and if the seller lives in a country where klarna is supported — currently australia, spain, the uk, the u. s., and canada ). to find out whether you ’ re eligible for klarna, select it as your payment option, click the see if you ’ re prequalified link that appears, enter your personal info, and click submit. you ’ ll find out right away whether you can use the service. if you have a gift card balance or etsy credit, that payment option is selected by default. you can deselect this option in the cart if you don ’ t want to use your gift card for this purchase. or, if the gift card balance doesn ’ t cover the entire purchase, you can make up the difference by using another form of payment. 7. do one of the following, depending on what payment type you chose : credit or debit card : click the use this card button. paypal : click the continue to pay with paypal button and follow the prompts. klarna : you will be asked to create to sign in to your klarna account. once you do, you can review the order and submit it. google pay : click the review your order button and follow the prompts. gift card or etsy credit : enter the code for your gift card or etsy credit in the box provided and click apply. etsy gift cards and etsy credit someone bought you an etsy gift card? aw! they must really love you! you receive gift cards in one of two ways : by email ( which you redeem by clicking the redeem now link in the message and following the prompts ) or on paper ( which you redeem by opening the your account menu, clicking gift card balance, typing the redemption code, and clicking apply now ). etsy credit acts just like an etsy gift card, and you follow the same steps to redeem it. the difference is that you get it directly from etsy. you may receive etsy credit as a special offer from the site or in certain circumstances involving refunds. if your balance is sufficient to cover the entire cost of the item, click proceed to checkout. if your balance is not sufficient to cover the entire cost, you ’ ll be prompted to select a second payment type. if you haven ’ t signed into etsy, you have the option to continue checking out as a guest or to sign into your account. if you check out as a guest, you ’ ll need to enter all the necessary info manually. what if your shopping cart contains items from multiple shops? as long as those shops accept etsy payments, you can complete the checkout process just once. 8. in the double check your order details page ( see figure 3 - 10 ), review the order summary. if you need to make any changes — to your shipping or billing address, payment method, shipping method, or anything else — now ’ s the time! at the time of this writing, the double check your order details page contains a check box that you can select to round up your payment and donate to etsy ’ s uplift fund. 9. if your order details check out, click the submit order button. etsy displays a confirmation screen and emails you to confirm your order. all you have left to do is install yourself in the proximity of your mailbox until your item arrives. while you wait for your purchase to arrive, you may need to review your order information. to do so, open the your account menu and choose purchases and reviews. your item will be listed on the purchases page. source : etsy. com figure 3 - 10 : double - check your order details here. as shown in figure 3 - 11, this item listing includes some helpful info. for example, if the seller left you a note about the transaction — how long the order may take to reach you or what have you — you ’ ll see it here. you can also see whether the item has been shipped, and if so, track its location and status. finally, you can click view receipt to view other transaction details. source : etsy. com figure 3 - 11 : this screen keeps you apprised of the status of your order. mobile order : shopping in the etsy app shopping on etsy ’ s mobile app is similar to shopping on the etsy marketplace website. you search for specific items or shops, applying various filters as needed, or you browse by category ( although the main categories on the app vary slightly from those on the website ). you tap listings that look appealing to find out more about them. and you pay for the item following the same basic steps as you would otherwise — but with two extra payment options : apple pay ( which also works on a regular computer if you ’ re using the safari web browser ) and google pay. there is one notable difference between the website and mobile app, though : it includes an explore feature. using explore, you can scroll through short - format videos produced by etsy sellers, similar to how you might scroll through videos on tiktok. you can like a video, comment on it, or send it to someone else ; or you can tap the seller ’ s shop name at the bottom of the video to access their shop. oh, one more thing : at the time of this writing, the etsy app is beta - testing an augmented reality feature that enables you to preview how products in the paintings, photography, and prints category will look in your space. listings that support this feature contain a hexagonal icon ( it looks a little like a snowflake ) in the top - right corner. when you tap the icon, the app accesses your smartphone ’ s camera and instructs you to point it toward the wall where you plan to hang the painting, photo, or print. the app then displays an image of the painting, photo, or print superimposed over the wall on your phone screen. under review : leaving a review after you buy after you receive your item, take a moment to leave a review about the transaction. it ’ s easy! all you have to do is rate the sale on a scale of one to five stars ( with five being fantastic and one being, like, the worst ). you can also leave a comment about the transaction or submit a photo with your review to show the seller ( and everyone else ) your new item “ in the wild. ” ( if you ’ re using the etsy app, you can add a video, too. ) other etsy users can view this feedback to determine whether a particular seller is reliable. your review affects your seller ’ s feedback score — and, by extension, their reputation on the site. it ’ s super important that you issue reviews consistently, fairly, and honestly. if you ’ ve had a negative experience with a seller, see whether you can hammer out whatever issue is bothering you before you toss the bad - review grenade their way. ( see the next section for more on trying to work things out with the seller. ) often, conflicts on etsy are simply the result of a misunderstanding. although leaving a review is purely optional, doing so is a good idea because it helps ensure that everyone feels safe shopping on etsy. note : you cannot leave a review until the estimated delivery date has passed. after it does, you have 60 days to leave a review. when you are eligible to leave a review, follow these steps : 1. open the your account menu in the header bar and choose review your purchases. the first of a series of review - related dialog boxes opens. 2. in the leave a review dialog box ( see figure 3 - 12 ), click the number of stars you want to leave as your rating. then click next. source : etsy. com figure 3 - 12 : choose a star rating for your purchase. 3. in the great! one more thing dialog box ( see figure 3 - 13 ), write a review about the item, transaction, or seller ( or all three ), and click submit review. etsy prompts you to upload a photo of your purchase. that way, other buyers can get a gander of it, and your seller gets to see their product in its new habitat. ( if you ’ re using the etsy app, you can add a video, too. ) source : etsy. com figure 3 - 13 : leave a review about the item, transaction, or seller. 4. click the camera icon to upload an image or video ; then follow the prompts. alternatively, click skip. etsy thanks you for your review and asks if you want to follow the seller. 5. optionally, click the follow button. click the x icon to close the dialog box. first aid : getting help from the seller try as you may, not every transaction will be as smooth as mick jagger with the ladies. maybe the item never arrives. maybe the item arrives, but it ’ s damaged. maybe the item arrives but it ’ s not what you ordered or it ’ s different from what you expected. maybe you need to change or update our order. or maybe you ’ ve got some other beef you need to sort out with the seller. your first move in the event a transaction goes south is to reach out to the seller to see if they can resolve the issue. more often than not, you ’ re just on the pointy end of a simple mistake or misunderstanding — one that ’ s easily rectified. you could contact the seller by sending them a message. that certainly works. but in situations like this, where you need the seller ’ s help, the best approach is to submit a help request. here ’ s how : 1. open the your account menu in the header bar and choose purchases and reviews. the purchases page opens. 2. locate the purchase for which you need help. 3. click the help with order button. ( see figure 3 - 14. ) the submit a help request to the seller page opens. source : etsy. com figure 3 - 14 : get help with a transaction. 4. under your help request details, choose the option that best describes your help request. based on your selection in step 4, etsy displays additional options. for example, if you select my order hasn ’ t arrived, etsy displays options that pertain to how you want the seller to resolve the problem : refund my order or send me a replacement. ( see figure 3 - 15. ) if you choose an item arrived damaged or an item is different from what i expected, you are also prompted to upload photos of the item so that the seller can see what you mean. 5. specify how you want the seller to resolve the problem and upload photos ( if prompted ). 6. share any details you want the seller to know about your help request in the box provided. source : etsy. com figure 3 - 15 : supply the relevant info. 7. click send help request. etsy forwards your help request to the seller by way of a message, and any replies you receive from the seller will arrive through etsy ’ s message feature. ( you find out more about messages in chapter 15. ) case in point : opening a case using etsy ’ s purchase protection program usually, submitting a help request is enough to resolve any problems you may have with a seller or an order. but if the seller hasn ’ t resolved your problem to your satisfaction within 48 hours after you file a help request, you have one more tool in your shed : etsy ’ s purchase protection program. here ' s how it works : you file a case with etsy that outlines your grievance. etsy reviews the case. you ’ ll receive a full refund, including shipping and handling costs, if etsy determines that your case has met these criteria : the item never arrived, the item arrived but was damaged, or the item arrived but didn ’ t match the listing description. the item cost less than $ 250. you paid for the item using etsy payments, and your account is in good standing. to file a case, follow these steps : 1. open the your account menu in the header bar and choose purchases and reviews. the purchases page opens. 2. locate the purchase for which you need to file a case. 3. click the help with order button. ( refer to figure 3 - 14. ) if at least 48 hours have passed since you submitted your help request, you see the screen shown in figure 3 - 16. source : etsy. com figure 3 - 16 : open a case from this screen. 4. click the open a case button. the open a case with etsy screen appears. ( see figure 3 - 17 ). source : etsy. com figure 3 - 17 : open a case against the seller. 5. specify your reason for filing the case. 6. if you are reporting an item that is not as it was described, upload one or more photos of the item to show the difference between it and its description. 7. click open a case. the tell etsy what went wrong with your order page appears. ( see figure 3 - 18. ) source : etsy. com figure 3 - 18 : say how you want to resolve the problem. 8. indicate what you would like to do to resolve the problem. 9. add more details either about the reported item or how you ’ d like to resolve the problem. 10. click submit case. to view the status of your case, follow these steps : 1. open the your account menu in the header bar and choose purchases and reviews. the purchases page opens. 2. locate the purchase whose case you want to review. 3. click the view case button. a page opens with information about your case. ( see figure 3 - 19. ) source : etsy. com figure 3 - 19 : view your case here. 4. scroll down to the case log section to see updates about your case and to add more details. ( see figure 3 - 20. ) if you and the seller come to an agreement that is amenable to you, you can close your case. to do so, simply click the close case button ( refer figure 3 - 19 ). etsy asks you to confirm that you want to close the case ; click the close case button to proceed. when you do, both you and the seller will receive an email confirming that the case is closed. source : etsy. com figure 3 - 20 : view updates on your case. chapter 4 safety first : maintaining your privacy and safety on etsy in this chapter understanding etsy etiquette maintaining your privacy on etsy shoring up your account ’ s security staying safe and avoiding scams on etsy, as in life, safety is paramount. just as you wear a seat belt when you drive, a helmet while on your bike, and knee pads during roller derby, you must take the appropriate steps to remain safe on etsy. in this chapter, you discover the precautions you must take to ensure your security and maintain your privacy on etsy. oh, behave! adhering to etsy ’ s house rules every etsy member must peruse the site ’ s our house rules page ( refer to figure 2 - 1 in chapter 2 ). this page links to everything you need to do to avoid committing a potentially embarrassing gaffe on the site. to view this page, scroll to the footer area on any etsy marketplace page and click the policies link in the about section. the our house rules page contains a link to the site ’ s terms of use ( see why they ’ re important to know and how to locate them in chapter 2 ) and its privacy policy ( discussed in the next section of this chapter ). in addition, you see the following links on the our house rules page : buyers : click this link to access policies that pertain to shopping, ordering, communicating with sellers, engaging with other site members, and more. these include the buyer policy, anti - discrimination and hate speech policy, community policy, privacy policy, and sanctions policy. there ’ s also a round up donation feature terms and conditions link. sellers : to see seller policies, click this link. these policies include the seller policy, advertising & marketing policy, anti - discrimination and hate speech policy, community policy, etsy payments policy, fees & payments policy, google shopping incentives policy, handmade policy, intellectual property policy, pattern policy, privacy policy, prohibited items policy, purchase protection program for sellers, sanctions policy, sell on etsy app policy, seller referrals policy, and shipping policy. third parties : this link provides access to policies for intellectual property ( ip ) holders, api developers, affiliates, and others. they include an affiliates policy, anti - discrimination and hate speech policy, api terms of use, etsy ’ s uk tax strategy, privacy policy, requests for information policy, submitting a regulatory request to etsy, and supplier code of conduct. private party : guarding your privacy on etsy just because you ’ re on etsy doesn ’ t mean you want everyone there all up in your business! fortunately, etsy takes your privacy seriously. if you ’ re particularly concerned about maintaining your privacy, consider using a post office box as your address when conducting business on etsy. that way, even when you buy or sell an item on the site, your home or work address remains private. understanding etsy ’ s privacy policy like all reputable websites, etsy maintains rigorous standards with respect to privacy. etsy outlines these standards in its privacy policy, which you access by clicking the privacy policy link on the our house rules page. we ’ re not lawyers. we don ’ t even play lawyers on tv, so we can ’ t get too deep into the specific legalese contained in the privacy policy. but in general terms, the privacy policy covers the following main topics, each with its own dedicated section : information collected or received : this covers what personal data you must provide to the site. it also details data - collection practices employed by etsy and its advertising partners, vendors, and suppliers to collect and analyze information about you and your activity on the site. findability : this relates to the ability of other people to find you on the site. messages from etsy : here, etsy spells out the circumstances under which it may contact you, and the communication channels it might use to do so. it also guarantees your ability to opt out of certain types of messages from etsy, such as marketing emails. community : this pertains to etsy ’ s forums and teams. the key point here is that any personal information you share in these community spaces can be read, collected, and used by others. information uses, sharing, & disclosure : in this section, etsy relays the circumstances in which it can disclose your personal information to others. in some cases, your consent is required ; in others, it ’ s not. transfers : this section has to do with what protections apply for your data if it is transmitted to another country. essentially, local laws apply. security : this is where etsy explains its security practices in general terms — for example, its use of encryption to protect credit card numbers and of two - factor authentication ( explained in “ making your account more secure, ” later in this chapter ) to prevent unauthorized users from signing into your etsy account. retention : this section covers how long etsy may retain your personal information. your rights & choices : in this part, etsy lays out what choices you have with respect to your personal information, the use of cookies ( not the yummy kind ), and how you receive communications from etsy. your responsibilities : here, etsy explains your responsibilities with regard to the privacy of others if you sell on the site. etsy reserves the right to amend or update its privacy policy, and it pinky - swears to notify you if it does. changing your privacy settings etsy ’ s all about do - it - yourself ( diy ). that ’ s why it offers various settings to take control of your privacy on the site. these include the following : recently viewed listings : as discussed in chapter 3, etsy displays recently viewed listings on the home page. if you want to clear those listings ( maybe you were looking for a birthday present for a family member and you don ’ t want to tip your hand, or maybe you ’ d rather not be reminded about that recent barry manilow – related search ), you can easily do so. your recently viewed listings will be removed, but listings you view in the future will be recorded. findability : you can limit your findability by hiding your info from other etsy members who use etsy ’ s find your friends feature to find real - world friends on the site. personalized advertising : if you don ’ t want etsy to share your personal information with third - party marketing and advertising partners to serve up targeted ads, you can deselect this option. you can also keep your favorites private. to access and change your privacy settings, follow these steps : 1. open the your account menu in the header bar along the top of any etsy marketplace page and choose account settings. 2. click the privacy tab at the top of the account settings page ( refer to figure 2 - 16 in chapter 2 ). 3. click the clear recently viewed listings button. etsy clears your recently viewed listings. 4. in the findability section, select the no option button. other etsy members will no longer be able to find you on the site by searching for your email address. 5. toggle the personalized advertising setting to the off position. setting this feature to off prevents etsy from sending your personalized information to third - party marketing and advertising partners. 6. click the update settings button. the privacy tab in account settings also allows you to download a copy of your personal data, as well as to permanently close and delete your account. safe passage : keeping yourself safe on etsy since its inception in 2005, etsy has grown like shaquille o ’ neal in the ninth grade — that is, a lot. unfortunately, that growth has made the site all the more attractive to hackers, scammers, and flimflammers, not to mention just plain jerks. in this section, you find out how to keep yourself safe on the site. choosing a strong password when you set up your etsy account, you ’ re prompted to select a password to prevent others from accessing your account ( see chapter 2 for details ). unfortunately, many people choose lame passwords — their birthdays, their kids ’ names, the word password, or something equally easy to guess. to ensure that no one but you accesses your account, you need to set a strong password — one that is at least eight characters long, doesn ’ t contain your username or your real name, doesn ’ t contain a complete word, differs from passwords you ’ ve used in the past, and contains a mixture of uppercase letters, lowercase letters, numbers, symbols, and spaces. don ’ t use the same password on every site. otherwise, if someone figures out your password for one site, that person will have access to all your online accounts. for an added layer of protection, periodically change your password — ideally, every 30 to 90 days. to change your password, follow these steps : 1. open the your account menu in the header bar and choose account settings. the account settings page opens with the account tab displayed ( refer to figure 2 - 13 in chapter 2 ). 2. in the password section of the account tab, type your current password in the current password field. 3. in the new password field, type your new password. 4. retype your new password in the confirm new password field. 5. click the change password button. etsy prompts you to log into the site using your new password. if you ’ re worried about forgetting your password, you can write it down — but make sure you store it somewhere safe and private. if you forget your password and where you wrote it down, you can enter the email address you used to set up your account here :. if you forget your password www. etsy. com / forgot _ password. php and where you wrote it down and the email address you used to set up your account, first double your dose of gingko biloba ; then contact etsy at to ask for help. support @ etsy. com if you ’ ve signed in to your etsy account using a public computer — for example, one at your local library or in a hotel lobby — be sure you sign out when you ’ re finished. otherwise, the next person who uses that computer will be privy to your account information. making your account more secure in case you ’ re extra concerned about security, etsy offers a few features to protect your account even more : two - factor authentication : this security feature adds a layer of protection above and beyond your password. here ’ s how it works : after you enter your email address and password to log into etsy, the site sends you a super - secret code by text, phone, or an authenticator app on your mobile device. you then enter that code on the site in the pop - up window that appears. sign in history : anytime someone signs into your account, etsy automatically detects when and where it happened and maintains a log of this activity called the sign - in history. you can check this log if you ’ re worried someone else might be signing into your account. you can also use this log to close any open sessions — for example, if you signed into etsy using a public computer and forgot to log off when you were finished. device history : just as it detects when and where someone accesses your account, etsy automatically tracks what device was used to do so. this tracking gives you yet another way to detect unauthorized logins. to view your sign - in history and device history, follow these steps : 1. open the your account menu in the header bar and choose account settings. 2. click the security tab along the top of the account settings page. the security tab opens. 3. scroll down to view your sign - in history ( refer to figure 2 - 17 in chapter 2 ) and device history. to enable two - factor authentication, follow these steps : 1. open the your account menu in the header bar and choose account settings. 2. click the security tab along the top of the account settings page. the security tab opens. 3. in the two - factor authentication section, click the authenticator app, sms, or phone toggle button. ( see figure 4 - 1. ) for this example, select sms. etsy prompts you to enter a mobile phone number. source : etsy. com figure 4 - 1 : toggle on two - factor authentication. 4. type your mobile phone number and click next. etsy sends a verification code to your mobile device and displays a pop - up window in which to enter the code. 5. type the verification code in the pop - up window and click next. etsy notifies you that you have set up two - factor authentication. 6. click next. etsy automatically generates a series of backup codes for you to download. you can then use these codes to log in to your account if you don ’ t have your registered device with you. ( see figure 4 - 2. ) 7. click download. the downloaded backup codes are saved as a text file in your computer ’ s downloads folder. be sure to store them somewhere safe, memorable, and accessible! source : etsy. com figure 4 - 2 : download backup codes. you can also generate backup codes manually. simply click the regenerate button next to backup codes in the two - factor authentication section of the security tab. you turn off two - factor authentication by performing these same basic steps — only this time, you toggle the feature off. staying safe in etsy ’ s public places one of the great things about using etsy is its robust community of interesting, arty folk. but as with any community — especially online — not everyone on etsy is honest or sincere. for this reason, it ’ s critical to take steps to stay safe on etsy ’ s public places, such as its forums and teams ( described in detail in chapter 18 ). here are a few points to keep in mind : lurk before you leap. before you jump into a forum or team discussion, monitor it for a while. see whether the people engaged in the discussion are ones you want to interact with. don ’ t hesitate to exit left. if a discussion goes south, simply disengage. life ’ s stressful enough — why embroil yourself in a conflict on a site that ’ s supposed to be fun? limit personal information. don ’ t share your digits or other personal details, such as where you live or work, on etsy ’ s forums, teams, or other public spaces. avoid oversharing. although participating in the etsy community can foster a sense of closeness among members, avoid the temptation to overshare. if you wouldn ’ t be comfortable sharing something with, say, your grandma, it probably doesn ’ t belong on etsy, either. think before you connect in real life. it ’ s not unheard of for etsy members to become bffs or even fall in love. still, you should take care before you agree to connect with other etsy users in real life. if you do decide to meet in person, pick a neutral public place — somewhere you ’ ll feel comfortable. also, make sure a friend or family member is hip to your plans, and bring your phone in case of emergency. be nice. if you ’ re kind to others online, chances are, others will be kind back. not only is it bad karma to knowingly insult or harass another etsy member, but it ’ s against the site ’ s rules. abusive behavior can get you kicked off the site for good. tons of people read etsy ’ s forums. if you ’ re not on your best behavior, it can cast a long shadow on you, your shop, and your business! avoiding scams on etsy yes, etsy is home to artists and crafters. but it ’ s also a target for con artists and shafters. so as you buy and sell on etsy, you need to be on the lookout for scams. back in the day, a common scam was to purchase an expensive item on the site, settle up with the seller using a check or money order, and ask the seller to expedite delivery of the item — before the check or money order cleared the bank. sometimes the scammer would even offer to pay more for the item if the seller fronted them some cash in the meantime. inevitably, the check or money order would bounce, leaving the seller in the lurch. nowadays, scams more typically involve shifty sellers who fence counterfeit goods, or who accept funds from buyers but never ship their items. etsy has taken significant steps to tackle these and other types of scams. for one thing, it no longer allows sellers to accept checks or money orders. instead, all transactions must be handled through etsy ’ s in - house checkout system, etsy payments, which protects both buyers and sellers from fraud. another protective step is the site ’ s robust rating system, which gives buyers tools to assess whether a seller is on the up - and - up before they drop their dough in their shop. also, buyers can report shops that list prohibited items. ( we cover ratings and reporting in chapter 3. ) still, it ’ s wise to be wary. if you get a bad feeling from a buyer or a seller, trust your instincts. assuming you ’ re not billy idol, those hairs on your neck are standing on end for a reason. pay attention to them. part 2 if you build it, they will come : setting up your etsy shop in this part … find out what you can — and can ’ t — sell on etsy. learn about tools to manage your etsy shop. customize your etsy storefront so that it stands out from the crowd. decide on your shop ’ s policies. discover a foolproof method for pricing your work. chapter 5 sell yes : understanding what you can and can ’ t sell on etsy in this chapter figuring out what you can sell on etsy identifying what items etsy doesn ’ t allow understanding the consequences of selling prohibited items reporting prohibited items an aimless turn through the etsy marketplace can reveal such a bizarre array of items — hand - painted capybara earrings, a pen holder shaped like the human intestinal tract, a “ microbes ” cross - stitch pattern, peeps - shaped soap, and so on — that one might reasonably believe it ’ s possible to buy literally anything on the site. actually, though, etsy allows the sale of only certain types of items. this chapter outlines what you ’ re allowed to sell on etsy and what ’ s strictly verboten. yes, we can! figuring out what you can sell on etsy in a nutshell, you can sell three types of items on etsy : items you made or designed yourself vintage goods ( 20 years or older ) supplies for crafting the following sections describe these three categories in detail and address questions you may have about them. some items transcend these categories. for example, maybe you have vintage or handmade items that also qualify as a supply. if your inventory includes items like these, you need to decide which category applies best. selling items you made or designed yourself etsy ’ s primary raison d ’ etre, or reason to exist, is to serve as a marketplace for makers and designers to sell their goods. according to etsy, a maker is a seller who personally makes the items they sell in their shop. a designer, in contrast, “ is a seller who has come up with an original design, pattern, sketch, template, prototype, or plan to be produced by in - house shop members or a production partner. ” if you ’ re more “ designer ” than “ maker, ” you still need to adhere to etsy ’ s handmade policy. it ’ s spelled out here :. https : / / www. etsy. com / legal / handmade whether you ’ re a maker or a designer ( or you sell vintage goods or craft supplies, as discussed in the next sections ), transparency is key. you must honestly and accurately represent yourself, your items, and your business. that means telling the story of your business in your shop ’ s about page — including listing the names and roles of anyone who helps produce your products. ( for more details on adding this information to your shop ’ s about page, see chapters 6 and 16. ) it also means using your own words and photos ( read : no stock photos ) to describe your items. finally, it means responding to inquiries from etsy regarding how your items are made ; what workspace, tools, and equipment you use ; and how you communicate and collaborate with your production partners in a timely manner. the whole point of etsy is to enable makers and designers to connect with buyers. etsy is more than an online craft fair, though. it ’ s an attempt to build an artisanal economy of sorts — one with high ethical standards that eschews mass production. so if you work with an outside manufacture, they need to comply with etsy ’ s ethical manufacturing policies, outlined here : https : / / www. etsy. com / legal / policy / ethical - expectations -. the bottom line : if your what - we - expect - from / 239336610868 inventory isn ’ t in line with this philosophy, etsy may not be the marketplace for you. offering vintage items although etsy was originally conceived as a marketplace for handmade items, it also serves as an excellent venue for vintage goods and collectibles : bags, books, clothing, electronics, furniture, jewelry, toys … really, any type. so how old does something have to be in order to be considered vintage? etsy ’ s answer is 20 years old. unless your item was manufactured roughly before kelly clarkson won american idol, it belongs on another platform. selling supplies to support its crafty community, etsy allows the sale of commercial crafting supplies on the site, including beads, buttons, fabric, findings, paper, patterns, tools, trim, wire, wool, and whatnot. selling shipping and packaging supplies is also allowed. what ’ s not allowed : items that, although they can conceivably be used as crafting supplies, are ready for use as is — think dollhouse furniture and the like. ditto for mass - produced goods that can be used in conjunction with handmade items but aren ’ t crafting supplies themselves. in other words, although your handmade eye shadow is a totally legitimate item on etsy, selling the mass - produced brush you use to apply it as a separate item isn ’ t cool. do you have a closet full of crafting supplies? if so, consider culling your collection and listing your leftovers on etsy. you ’ ll not only pull in a little extra cash but also give those goodies a new lease on life. just say no! understanding what ’ s not allowed on etsy you know what you can sell ( thanks to the previous section ) : handmade items ( that you ’ ve designed and / or made yourself ), vintage goods, and supplies. you may assume, then, that as long as your item fits into one of those categories, it ’ s acceptable for sale on etsy. but you know what happens when you assume! in the following sections, we describe what types of items etsy doesn ’ t allow. knowing what items are prohibited any number of items may meet the aforementioned criteria but aren ’ t permitted on etsy. one obvious example is goods that are illegal. ( every etsy seller is responsible for following all local laws. ) other prohibited items include the following : alcohol, tobacco, drugs, drug paraphernalia, and medical drugs animal products and human remains dangerous items ( hazardous materials, recalled items, and weapons ) risque business : selling mature content on etsy yeah, we know. we just said nudity and mature content were prohibited on etsy. but really, restricted would be a better word. etsy permits the sale of goods that contain … well, let ’ s say salty language. and it allows the sale of items that depict male or female genitalia or sexual activity, if they ’ re not pornographic. ( etsy defines pornography as items that contain “ printed or visual material that explicitly describes or displays sex acts, sex organs, or other erotic behavior for the sole purpose of sexual arousal or stimulation. ” ) but it doesn ’ t allow mature items that are illegal, exploitative, or used. ( ew. ) sellers who list mature items must comply with certain policies to ensure that etsy remains appropriate for a g - rated audience. first, they must tag these listings with the word mature. that way, people who don ’ t want to see them can omit them from search results by adding - mature to their search strings. second, the first thumbnail image for the listing must be appropriate for general audiences ( although additional images may show the item in all its mature splendor ). finally, although you can sell items that contain mature content or profane language, you may not use this type of content or language in your username, profile, item titles, profile picture, shop name, or about page. hate items ( items that promote, support, or glorify hatred ) illegal items, items promoting illegal activity, and highly regulated items internationally regulated items nudity and mature content violent items ( items that promote, support, or glorify violence ) selling only certain services in general, you can ’ t sell your services on etsy. the site is designed as a marketplace for goods. so even if you ’ re the best dog - walking, house - sitting masseuse this side of the mississippi, you can ’ t advertise your business on etsy. you also can ’ t use etsy to rent property. you can ’ t even use it to avail yourself to members seeking people with art - adjacent skills in the realm of tailoring, restoring antiques, retouching old photos, and the like. if, however, your service results in a new, tangible item, you may offer it for sale on the site. for example, you may sell your services as a graphic designer, offering custom logos for clients, delivered via a digital file. or maybe you give workshops ; in that case, as long as participants leave your class with an actual physical object — an instructional booklet, a finished project, or what have you — it counts. and for all you psychics and tarot readers out there, so long as you send your customer an audio or video of your reading, or a photo of your tarot spread, you ’ re good to go. ( yeah, we know. you probably already intuited that. ) for more information about what you can and can ’ t sell on etsy, see the site ’ s prohibited items policy page ( ). www. etsy. com / legal / prohibited /? ref = list offense taken : reporting prohibited items yeah, we know. nobody likes a snitch. but part of ensuring that etsy remains safe and fair for everyone is flagging shops that violate etsy ’ s policies. to report a shop that sells prohibited items — maybe they ’ re mass - produced or maybe they ’ re dangerous or violent in nature — follow these steps : 1. click the report this shop to etsy link on the left side of the shop ’ s main page. ( you might need to scroll down a little. ) a dialog box appears, asking you to specify why you ’ re reporting the shop. 2. open the drop - down list and choose they sell items that don ’ t meet etsy ’ s policies. 3. choose an option in the they sell items that are … section — for example, prohibited or uses prohibited materials. 4. optionally, add more information in the text box at the bottom of the dialog box. 5. click report this shop. off with their heads! knowing what happens if you break a rule if you list a prohibited item or service on etsy, vigilant staffers or other site members may flag it for review. ( note that you ’ re not privy to information about who flagged your item. ) in extreme cases, etsy may delist your item immediately. more typically, however, etsy will contact you to attempt to remedy the problem. in some cases, you may be asked to remove the prohibited item from your shop. if you fail to do so, etsy will remove it for you. in egregious cases, etsy may opt to suspend or even terminate your selling privileges. ( note that, as a seller, you ’ ll still be responsible for any outstanding fees if etsy removes an item or suspends or terminates your account. ) an appeal a day : filing an appeal if you find yourself in the unfortunate position of having your account permanently suspended, you can file an appeal. follow these steps : 1. scroll to the footer area of any etsy marketplace page and click the help center link. 2. at the bottom of the etsy help center page, click contact etsy support. 3. on the get help page, click selling on etsy. 4. click your etsy account. 5. click reopening or closing account. 6. click appeal a permanently suspended account. 7. click file an appeal. 8. click email us. 9. type a subject for your message in the subject field. 10. type a detailed message in the description field — including what changes you ’ ll make to adhere to etsy ’ s policies from here on out. 11. to attach a file to your message, click the add file button and choose the file you want to attach. 12. click send. after you submit your appeal, an etsy specialist will review it. you will receive the agent ’ s final decision regarding your account via email. ( be aware that it might take as long as two weeks to receive a decision. ) chapter 6 setting up shop : creating your etsy storefront in this chapter setting up your shop adding a banner and shop icon composing your shop title and announcement sharing shop info and editing your shop settings if you want to join the ranks of people who supplement their income or earn their living on etsy, you need to take one important step : set up your etsy shop. fortunately, doing so is a snap, as you discover in this chapter. you can personalize your etsy shop in a few different ways : by adding a banner, selecting a shop icon, and including a shop title and a shop announcement. you can also personalize your shop by populating your public profile ( discussed in chapter 2 ) and your shop ’ s about section. one major reason people shop on etsy is to feel connected to the creative types who design or make what they buy. to make sure people buy from you, you want your etsy shop — and the items you list there — to reflect your personality. whether you ’ re serious or whimsical, modern or traditional, edgy or frilly, let your individuality shine through in your choice of images, colors, fonts, and other visual elements. your selection of words in your bio and other text - based elements should also reflect your personality. by revealing your true self in your etsy shop, not only are you likely to increase your sales, but you may just make some friends along the way! shop to it : creating your etsy shop becoming an etsy seller is easy. simply create your shop on the site, choose a shop name, list your first item, and set up your billing information. before you set up your shop, be sure you have an item ready to list. listing your first item is part of the shop - setup process. creating your shop at the risk of sounding like mr. obvious, the first step to setting up your etsy shop is to create the shop in the first place. follow these steps : 1. while signed in to your etsy account, open the your account menu and choose sell on etsy. 2. click get started on the page that appears. then click let ’ s do this. etsy displays a series of preliminary screens. at present, they ask what brought you to the site and whether there are any specific selling - related topics you ’ d like help with. 3. choose from the available options to advance through each of the preliminary screens. 4. click start your shop. in the shop preferences screen, etsy prompts you to choose a language, country, and currency for your shop. ( see figure 6 - 1. ) although the lion ’ s share of etsy sellers hail from the ol ’ u. s. of a. — which is one reason the site ’ s default currency is the u. s. dollar — plenty of etsy sellers call other countries home. if you ’ re in that latter group, or if you find that your buyers tend to be clustered in a particular region abroad, you can list items and receive payments in a different currency, assuming it ’ s one of the other 20 - plus currencies supported, including those of australia, canada, the european union, great britain, hong kong, israel, mexico, new zealand, singapore, and vietnam. 5. if your shop language is english, your shop currency is the u. s. dollar, and your shop country is united states, you don ’ t need to do anything. you can simply accept the default selections. otherwise, choose the desired options in the shop language, shop country, and shop currency fields. 6. click the save and continue button. etsy saves your changes. source : etsy. com figure 6 - 1 : choose a shop language, country, and currency. picking a name after you click the save and continue button ( refer to step 6 in the preceding section ), etsy prompts you to select a shop name. simply type the name you want to use for your shop. if no other seller has beaten you to the punch and selected your shop name already, etsy will inform you that the name you typed is available. ( see figure 6 - 2. ) if the name you typed is not available, you ’ ll have to try a different one. keep entering names until you find one you can use. then click the save and continue button. your shop name must contain only unaccented letters and numbers, without spaces or punctuation, and consist of fewer than 20 characters. if the name you choose contains multiple words, consider capitalizing each word to make the name easier to read. creating your first listing with your shop name set, etsy prompts you to create your first listing ( s ). ( see figure 6 - 3. ) when you finish, etsy prompts you to add more listings to stock up your shop ; for now, click do this later. choosing a solid shop name when choosing your shop name, keep these points in mind : pick a name that ’ s easy to remember and to spell, and that contains no more than a few words that flow well together. if you already have a following elsewhere — for example, at craft fairs, in art galleries, or somewhere else — consider using your own name as your shop. using your own name may make it more difficult to maintain your privacy on the site, but it can help you capitalize on your real - world successes. choose a name that reflects what you sell. for example, if you specialize in selling refrigerator magnets, you may want to include the word magnet in your shop. keep in mind, though, that this leaves little room for growth if you decide to expand your selection beyond the magnetic. ( note that you can create multiple accounts to run more than one etsy storefront — say, one for your thriving refrigerator magnet business and another for your hand - knit fingerless gloves enterprise. doing so creates its own set of problems, though, most stemming from the challenges of keeping up with more than one shop. ) or choose a name that doesn ’ t reflect what you sell. that way, you give yourself room to grow. double points if the name you choose is an uncommon word or one you made up, like dillytante or farmtastic. ( etsy calls these “ abstract names ” ; a major advantage of these types of names is that they ’ re unique, which makes them easier for customers to search for online. ) select a name that reflects your style. you don ’ t want to select an elegant, refined name if you plan to sell wacky hand - knit beard balaclavas. for legal reasons, steer clear of trademarked words ( including the word etsy ). don ’ t be a copycat. do some research across the internet, not just on etsy, to make sure you aren ’ t infringing on someone else ’ s brand name or shop name. note : ideally, you want to land on with a solid shop name before you open your etsy shop. but if you jolt awake at 3 a. m. the day after your shop goes live because some monster in a fever dream revealed the perfect name for it, you can change it. to change your shop ’ s name, click the shop manager link in the header bar ( it appears after you create your shop ), click settings, and click info & appearance. then click the shop name tab, type your new shop name in the new shop name box, and click save. ( you can change you shop name with no hassle from etsy as many as four times. the fifth time, though, you ’ ll have to run it by them first. and after that, you ’ re stuck with the one you have. ) source : etsy. com figure 6 - 2 : etsy prompts you to choose your shop name. source : etsy. com figure 6 - 3 : create your first listing. chapter 12 covers the ins and outs of creating listings. we recommend that you flip ahead to that chapter to complete this part of the shop - setup process, and return to this chapter when you ’ re finished. setting up etsy payments we know : it ’ s impolite to talk about money. but at the risk of sounding crass, odds are you ’ ve set up your etsy shop in the hopes of pulling in some serious coinage. to aid in that endeavor, etsy provides a service called etsy payments. using etsy payments, you can seamlessly accept the following types of payments : credit card ( visa, mastercard, american express, and discover ) etsy gift card apple pay and google pay paypal klarna etsy automatically transfers funds you receive via etsy payments into your bank account. as an added bonus, etsy also offers fraud protection for any transactions involving etsy payments. etsy charges a processing fee for each etsy payments transaction. this fee varies by country. in the u. s., the fee equals 3 percent of the total sale ( including shipping and sales tax ) plus $ 0. 25. this is on top of your etsy listing fee. when you set up your shop, etsy prompts you to sign up for etsy payments, as shown in figure 6 - 4. scroll down and provide the following information : your country of residence your first name, your last name, and your date of birth your tax id number your address and phone number you must also provide your bank information and link your etsy shop to your bank — a process that involves using an integrated tool called plaid. this step is super important because it ’ s what enables etsy to transfer funds to your account. here ’ s what you do : 1. open the where is your bank located drop - down list and choose the country where your bank is located. 2. in the bank information section, click connect your bank via plaid. a pop - up window appears to inform you that etsy uses plaid to connect to your bank account. source : etsy. com figure 6 - 4 : set up etsy payments. 3. click continue. 4. specify how you ’ ll link your bank account — instant ( recommended ) or manual. ( we picked instant. ) then click continue. 5. choose your banking institution and click continue. 6. enter the login credentials ( username and password ) you use to log in to your bank account. then click submit. to verify your identity, plaid sends you a verification code. 7. choose how you want to receive your verification code ( by phone, text, or email ) and click continue. 8. enter the verification code you received and click submit to connect plaid to your bank. 9. choose the account where you want etsy to deposit your payments and click continue. plaid notifies you that you have successfully connected your etsy account to your bank account. 10. click continue. etsy informs you that you ’ ve successfully connected your bank account. 11. optionally, open the deposit schedule drop - down list and choose when and how often etsy should deposit outstanding funds into your bank account. 12. click save and continue. at the time of this writing, the etsy payments option is available in more than 40 countries around the world. if this option is not supported in your country, however, you can accept electronic payments directly through paypal. setting up your credit card of course, you ’ re not the only person here trying to make a buck. etsy deserves a bit of compensation for helping you to sell your item, don ’ t you agree? as mentioned in chapter 1, etsy stays afloat by charging sellers a listing fee ( currently, $ 0. 20 for sellers in the u. s. ) for each item they offer. in addition, etsy collects a commission from the seller for each item sold — currently, 6. 5 percent of the total price of the item, plus the amount you charge for gift wrapping and shipping. ( note that this is on top of any fees etsy collects for your use of etsy payments. ) instead of relying on muscle and intimidation to obtain payment for these fees, etsy requires you to register a credit card number with the site. indeed, you can ’ t open your shop until you do. then, each month, etsy automatically charges the appropriate amount to the credit card to cover your listing and any advertising fees you might have incurred. ( you find out how to advertise on etsy in chapter 14. ) etsy also charges your card anytime you owe more than $ 25 in etsy fees. ( that $ 25 fee threshold applies to new sellers. as you sell more on etsy, this threshold will rise. ) etsy deducts your etsy payments fees directly from your sale, so those aren ’ t charged to the credit card you have on file. as shown in figure 6 - 5, etsy prompts you to enter this information as the penultimate step of the shop - setup process. ( if you ’ ve already entered a credit card — for example, to purchase something on etsy — etsy automatically uses that card for billing. ) securing your shop just as a real - world shopkeeper locks up their store anytime they ’ re away, you should secure your etsy shop, which you can do by using two - factor authentication. as mentioned in chapter 4, two - factor authentication requires you to provide two forms of authentication to access your account — in this case, something you know ( username and password ) and something you have ( a mobile phone, to which etsy sends a secret code that you use to verify your identity ). source : etsy. com figure 6 - 5 : enter your credit card information. your new shop will have two - factor authentication enabled by default. as the last step of the shop - setup process, etsy prompts you to specify whether to receive two - factor authentication verification codes by sms ( text ), phone ( call ), or an authenticator app ( a mobile app designed to handle two - factor authentication ). make your choice and click continue to enter the particulars. for example, if you choose to receive the verification code by sms, enter your phone number. then click send code. etsy sends a verification code to the number you entered ; just enter that code in the box provided. ( see figure 6 - 6. ) source : etsy. com figure 6 - 6 : set up two - factor authentication. just as in chapter 4, etsy automatically generates a series of backup codes. you can use these codes to log into your account if you don ’ t have your registered device on you. you definitely want to save these codes somewhere you can find them! whew! you ’ ve picked a name for your shop, created your first listing, set up etsy payments and supplied a credit card, and put a digital padlock on your account. finally, you ’ re ready to launch your shop! just click the open your shop button and you ’ ll be officially open for business. lots of new sellers aren ’ t quite ready to launch their shop at the precise moment they finish setting it up on etsy. maybe they want to spruce up their shop a bit more, or they don ’ t have quite enough inventory, or they ’ re not thrilled with the bio they posted on their about page. if this sounds like you, you may think about putting your shop on vacation right when you open it. that way, you can apply your finishing touches before launching your shop in earnest. for help putting your shop on vacation, see chapter 16. banner day : adding a banner and shop icon to your shop to spruce up your etsy shop, you can add a banner and shop icon. a banner is a graphic that runs across the top of your page. it can be one of two sizes : big or mini. in contrast, a shop icon serves as an avatar for your shop. don ’ t just choose a banner and shop icon willy - nilly. these visual elements should reflect the aesthetic of the items you sell and tie in with your overall branding. ( you find out more about branding in chapter 14. ) it ’ s not a bad idea to include your shop ’ s name in your banner, but apart from that, you should use text sparingly. otherwise, anyone viewing it on a mobile device will develop instant eyestrain when trying to read it. you can create your banner and shop icon from scratch using just about any image - editing software you like — even free stuff online. unfortunately, we can ’ t cover the ins and outs of actually creating a banner and shop icon. if you ’ re new to image - editing software, you ’ ll have to delve into your program ’ s help info for guidance. but we can give you this pointer : whatever tool you use, make sure your banner and shop icon are cropped to fit properly on your etsy shop page. big banners should be 3, 360 pixels wide and 840 pixels high ; mini banners should be 1, 600 x 213 pixels ) and your shop icon should be 500 x 500 pixels ( and smaller than 10mb ). if you ’ re no rembrandt, why not let a pro take over and invest in a professionally designed custom banner or shop icon ( or both )? many talented designers offer this service from their own etsy shops. try searching etsy for “ etsy shop banner ” or “ etsy shop icon ” and see what comes up. just be sure you go the “ custom ” route instead of opting for a ready - made version. otherwise, buyers may well stumble upon other shops using the same banner as yours. not the best way to build your unique brand! when you have your banner and shop icon in hand, it ’ s time to upload them to your etsy shop. to upload your banner, follow these steps : 1. click the shop manager link in the header bar that appears along the top of every etsy marketplace page. the shop manager opens. 2. in the left pane of the shop manager, under sales channels, click the pencil icon next to your shop name. the edit shop page opens ( see figure 6 - 7 ). source : etsy. com figure 6 - 7 : you can edit your shop ’ s appearance from this page. 3. click the banner to showcase your brand and listings link along the top of the page. etsy prompts you to select a branding style. your choices are big banner, mini banner, and none. if you have upgraded to etsy plus, you have two additional banner options : carousel, which cycles through a series of images, one at a time ; and collage, which allows you to combine as many as four images on your banner. for more on etsy plus, see chapter 17. 4. choose banner or mini banner. ( we chose mini banner. ) 5. click add an image. a standard file - selection dialog box appears. 6. locate and select the image you want to use as your banner. etsy shows you a preview of the banner. 7. if needed, drag the banner to position it. then click save. etsy uploads your banner to your shop. the process for uploading your shop icon is similar. follow these steps : 1. in the edit shop page, click the small camera icon on the graphic to the left of your shop name. if the edit shop page isn ’ t open already, open shop manager and, under sales channels, click the pencil icon next to your shop name. etsy displays the add a shop icon dialog box. 2. click choose a file. a standard file - selection dialog box appears. 3. locate and select the image you want to use as your shop icon. etsy gives you a chance to reposition and crop your shop icon. 4. if needed, reposition and crop the shop icon ; then click save. etsy displays a preview of the shop icon. 5. click looks good. etsy uploads your shop icon to your shop. figure 6 - 8 shows our shop in the edit shop page, with a shop banner and shop icon added. if you have commitment issues, fear not. you can change your banner and shop icon any time you want. for example, you may change these visual elements to reflect promotions that you ’ re running or update them seasonally to keep your shop looking fresh. source : etsy. com figure 6 - 8 : what a difference a banner and shop icon make! title wave : adding a shop title and announcement looking for a way to tell visitors what your shop ’ s about? look no further. etsy enables you to include a shop title and shop announcement on your shop ’ s main page. think of your shop title as a tagline of sorts. it needs to briefly sum up what your shop is about. for example, if you sell belt buckles, your shop title — which appears just below your username on your etsy shop page — may be “ keep your pants on … with becky ’ s belt buckles. ” if customers are likely to search for you by your full name or your business name, consider including that in your shop title, too. the shop announcement, in contrast, is a great way to, well, announce things about your shop. for example, you may use it to trumpet the types of items you sell or your artistic philosophy. or it could broadcast when your next sale will be or to announce your new collection. either way, etsy suggests that you keep it short and sweet. if it ’ s more anna karenina than haiku, not all of it will be visible by default. to read it in its entirety, click the read more link that appears after the first few lines. to add a shop title and shop announcement to your shop, follow these steps : 1. in the edit shop page, click the add a shop title link beneath your shop name. if the edit shop page isn ’ t open already, open shop manager and, under sales channels, click the pencil icon next to your shop name. etsy displays the shop title dialog box ( see figure 6 - 9 ). source : etsy. com figure 6 - 9 : type your shop title in this dialog box. 2. type your shop title and click save. etsy adds your shop title to your shop. 3. click the add a shop announcement link in the announcement section of the edit shop page. a text box appears. 4. type your shop announcement in the shop announcement text box and click the save button. etsy adds your shop title and shop announcement to your shop ( see figure 6 - 10 ). source : etsy. com figure 6 - 10 : etsy adds your shop title and shop announcement to your shop. all about me : adding an about section as we mention at the start of the chapter, one reason people shop on etsy is to feel a personal connection with the living, breathing artists, craftspeople, and other creative types who design, make, or curate what they buy. to facilitate this sense of connection, fill out the about section on your shop ’ s main page. the about section is a bit like the bio in your public profile, only bigger and more dynamic. you fill out the about section of your shop from the edit shop page. to access this page, open shop manager and, under sales channels, click the pencil icon next to your shop name. then scroll down a bit to access the about your shop name settings, which are shown in figure 6 - 11. the about your shop name settings enable you to add the following elements to your shop ’ s about section : video : maybe you have a video that shows you, your process, your workspace, or a partly finished project. if so, you can upload it to your shop ’ s about section. ( obviously, you must own the rights to any video you share on etsy. ) to upload a video, click the add video link in the about your shop name settings and choose the video you want to upload from the standard file - selection dialog box that opens. source : etsy. com figure 6 - 11 : the about your shop name settings. photos : you can include as many as five photos and captions, presented in slide - show form, in your shop ’ s about section. like your video, these photos might depict you, your process, your workspace, and so on. to add a photo, click the add up to 5 photos with captions link and choose the first photo you want to add from the standard file - selection dialog box that opens. the photo you chose appears ( see figure 6 - 12 ) in the about your shop name section ; click the add a caption link, type your caption in the text box that appears, and click save. repeat as needed to add more photos. ( obviously. ) shop story and story headline : your shop story can be similar to the bio you wrote for your public profile, but it doesn ’ t have to be. lots of etsy sellers use their shop story to get into the nitty - gritty of what they do and why. alternatively, your shop story may discuss who you are on a more personal level, what your studio is like, or what a normal day is like. oh, and if you ’ ve received some good press lately, your shop story could toot that horn. as for your story headline, that could be something akin to your shop title. to enter your shop story and story headline, click the add your story and add a story headline links, respectively ( refer to figure 6 - 11 ). then type your text in the boxes that appear and click save. source : etsy. com figure 6 - 12 : add photos to your shop. many etsy sellers donate a portion of their take to charity. if you ’ re one such seller, you can indicate that fact in your bio. ( note that charitable listings and shops are subject to a few rules, outlined here :. ) www. etsy. com / help / article / 4528 links to other sites : you can add links to other sites you maintain for your craft business to the about section on your shop ’ s main page. this may be a social media account, a company website, or a blog. to do so, click the add links to your website and social media link ( refer to figure 6 - 11 ). then choose the type of link you want to add ( facebook, twitter, and so on ) from the drop - down list that appears. finally, enter its url in the text box to the right and click save. shop members : if you run your etsy shop with, or sell products designed or manufactured by, someone else, that person is considered a shop member. as such, they should appear on your shop page. to add a shop member to your shop page, click the add a personal bio … link ( refer to figure 6 - 11 ). in the add shop member dialog box, click choose file and select a photo of the shop member from the standard file - selection dialog box that appears. enter the shop member ’ s name in the add member name box ; then open the add a role drop - down list and select the appropriate role ( s ). ( options include owner, assistant, creator, customer service, designer, maker, marketer, photographer, and shipper, or you can create a custom role. ) finally, type a brief bio of the shop member and click save. don ’ t forget to proofread all the text in your etsy shop — your shop title, shop announcement, section titles, bio, and so on. running a shop that ’ s riddled with spelling and grammatical errors sends shoppers the wrong message — namely, that you ’ re sloppy, lazy, or incompetent. that image isn ’ t likely to win you any buyers! let ’ s see it! viewing your etsy shop you ’ ve set up your etsy shop! now it ’ s time to review your handiwork. to do so, click the view shop button at the bottom of the edit shop page. etsy displays your shop the way your customers will see it. ( see figure 6 - 13. ) your shop will look different on the etsy mobile app ( which you can use on a smartphone or tablet ) but will offer many of the same features. if inspiration strikes after you set up your shop and you want to change your banner, revise your shop announcement, or update some other aspect of your storefront, simply return to the edit shop page discussed in this chapter and change any shop settings you want. you can also access certain shop settings from the settings link on the left side of your shop manager screen. source : etsy. com figure 6 - 13 : your shop as it appears to your customers! chapter 7 upper management : using shop manager to run your etsy store in this chapter getting around the shop manager locating shop - related tools accessing shop settings exploring other sales channels in chapter 2, we mention that etsy has two main sets of screens for managing your account. one set contains features and settings that pertain to you and your shopping preferences, and the other has tools to manage your etsy shop. well, in this chapter, you explore the second set of tools, collectively called the shop manager. the shop manager is where you, well, manage your shop. you use it to create and administer listings, exchange messages with other etsy users, and oversee orders and shipping. shop manager also has tools to help you become a star seller, track and analyze shop statistics, handle shop finances, market and promote your shop, find third - party tools to streamline your business practices, and interact with the etsy community. finally, you can change shop settings and set up new sales channels from within shop manager. the next several chapters show you how to use many of these shop manager tools to run your etsy store. but first, we thought it might be helpful to provide you with a guided tour of the shop manager, to help you get your bearings. that ’ s what this chapter is about. i want to see the manager : navigating the shop manager after you set up your etsy store, you notice something new about the header bar at the top of every etsy marketplace page : the addition of an icon just to the left of the your account menu that looks like a tiny storefront. ( see figure 7 - 1. ) you click this icon to open the shop manager. source : etsy. com figure 7 - 1 : a shop manager icon appears in the header bar at the top of etsy marketplace page. figure 7 - 2 shows the main shop manager page. it features a handy - dandy dashboard that provides you with a quick look at how your shop is doing and any action items you may have. we talk more about the shop manager dashboard in chapter 16. source : etsy. com figure 7 - 2 : the shop manager dashboard. note the pane of links on the left side of the shop manager page. these links — accessible from any page within the shop manager — provide access to pages containing the aforementioned shop - related tools. in some cases, clicking a link opens a page directly. in others, clicking the link opens a menu with additional options. for example, figure 7 - 3 shows the options that appear when you click the finances link. to reduce the width of the pane, click the button at the bottom of the pane with two left - pointing arrows. the button changes to contain two right - pointing arrows ; click it to restore the pane to its normal width. source : etsy. com figure 7 - 3 : some links on the left side of the shop manager open a menu with additional options. you can search for the tool you want by clicking the search link at the top of the links pane and typing the tool ’ s name in the search pane that opens. in addition to a variety of tools, shop manager provides access to various shop - related settings, accessible from the settings link in the links pane. at the very bottom of the links pane is a button with your name and profile picture. click this button to open a menu with options to access your account information and your profile, and to sign out of your etsy account. finally, when you finish using shop manager and want to return to the etsy marketplace, simply click the shop manager down arrow at the very top of the links pane and choose etsy marketplace from the menu that appears. ( see figure 7 - 4. ) source : etsy. com figure 7 - 4 : switch to the etsy marketplace. what a tool : exploring shop manager tools as we describe in the previous section, the links in the left pane of any shop manager page provide access to the aforementioned shop - related tools. these tools include the following : listings : click this link to open the listings page. here, you add new listings and manage existing ones. you find out how to create and manage listings in chapter 12. messages : one way to access your messages is to open the your account menu in the header bar of any etsy marketplace page and choose messages. alternatively, you can click the messages link in the shop manager. we talk more about messages in chapter 15. orders & shipping : when you want to view open, completed, or canceled orders, you click the orders & shipping link in shop manager. we talk more about shipping in chapter 13. star seller : this page shows you your progress toward earning various etsy seller badges. these include the speedy replies badge, the rave reviews badge, the smooth shipping badge, and the mother of all badges, star seller. we talk more about badges in chapters 14 and 15. stats : this page enables you to track all sorts of information about your shop, like the number of visits, the number of orders, your conversion rate, your revenue, and more. for more info on shop stats, see chapter 16. finances : clicking the finances link reveals a menu that provides access to pages for handling various aspects of your shop ’ s finances. these include payment account, monthly statement, payment settings, quickbooks for etsy, turbotax for etsy, and legal and tax information. we cover the tools on these pages in chapter 16. marketing : with literally millions of etsy shops for buyers to choose from, making yours stand out is imperative. when you click the marketing link in the shop manager, you can choose from a menu of marketing options, including search analytics, etsy ads, sales and discounts, social media, and custom web address. these are the focus of chapter 14. integrations : a whole host of companies have developed tools that integrate with etsy to help you run your etsy biz. you access and manage these tools from the integrations page. for more on these integrated third - party tools, see chapter 16. community & help : look, we ’ ll be honest : starting and running an etsy shop is not terribly difficult. but that doesn ’ t mean you won ’ t find yourself a bit lost every so often. fortunately, clicking the community & help link in the shop manager connects you to various resources. these include etsy teams and etsy forums ( see chapter 18 ), as well as etsy help, the seller handbook, and shipping help ( see chapter 21 ). you can also review any cases you ’ re involved in ( see chapter 15 ), review etsy ’ s policies ( see chapters 4 and 5 ), and contact etsy support directly ( see chapter 21 ). it ’ s a setup! accessing shop settings shop manager also includes several tools for changing shop settings. to access these tools, click the settings link in the links pane ( the left pane ) of the shop manager page. a menu appears with the following options : your subscription : choose this to upgrade your etsy subscription, or membership, to etsy plus. with etsy plus, you gain access to a whole slew of additional tools to jump - start the growth of your shop — albeit for a fee. we talk about etsy plus in chapter 17. info and appearance : choose this option to access settings that enable you to change the look and feel of your shop ( refer to chapter 6 ) and to broadcast info about your shop and its policies ( see chapter 8 ). about your shop : select this choice to add shop members ( a shop member is anyone who helps to make the things you sell or to run the shop — including you ). you can also choose to share a shop story, shop video, shop photos, and shop links. we talk about your shop story in chapter 6. options : pick this menu item to handle a mish - mash of shop - related policies, like whether you accept custom orders or offer gift wrapping, whether your listings are automatically translated into other languages, and whether your shop displays items that have been sold. ( for more on these options, see chapter 6. ) it also gives you access to tools like shop data and web analytics, as well as options to shutter your shop either temporarily or permanently. ( these topics are covered in chapter 16. ) shipping settings : click this item to access settings to establish and convey your shipping policies, including creating new shipping profiles, setting up a free shipping guarantee, indicating your package and shipping label preferences, and specifying rates and upgrades. for more on shipping settings, see chapter 13. production partners : if you decide to enter into a relationship with a production partner, you must list them on your etsy shop, and you do that here. for more on working with production partners, see chapter 17. offsite ads : this is where you specify whether you want to opt out of etsy ’ s offsite ads program. participating in offsite ads means etsy could potentially feature one of your listings in ads it places on other sites. for the ins and outs of offsite ads, see chapter 14. languages and translations : if you a ) have a knack for languages and b ) want to sell your items abroad, you can translate your etsy shop ’ s info and listings into other languages. ( just be sure you ’ re fluent enough to conduct business with others in that language, or at least know your way around google translate or something similar! ) for more on this feature, see chapter 17. facebook shops : social media is a great way to promote your etsy shop and your listings. to facilitate this promotion, you can connect your shop with your facebook and instagram accounts. then, when someone sees your listing on their social media feed, they can click it to land directly in your shop. ( see chapter 14 for more details. ) change the channel : setting up sales channels problem : you want to expand your etsy shop to handle sales in person or through your own website. solution : set up additional sales channels with etsy ’ s integrated partners, such as pattern and square! you can add new sales channels — including your own website ( which you can create using a special service called pattern ) and in - person sales ( facilitated by the use of square, a platform for processing transactions in real life ) — from within the shop manager. just select the channel you want to set up by clicking it in the sales channels section of the links pane on the left. the sales channels section also includes a link to preview your etsy shop and, from there, to edit it. we talk about pattern and square in chapter 17 ; for help editing your etsy shop, refer to chapter 6. chapter 8 policy academy : setting your shop ’ s policies in this chapter reviewing general policy tips setting up your shop policies adding seller details for eu compliance creating an faq rules. who needs ’ em? well, you do. or to be more precise, your etsy shop does. as you set up your etsy shop, it ’ s critical that you lay some ground rules for buyers. that means establishing clear store policies, especially with respect to shipping, returns and exchanges, cancellations, and privacy. that way, your customers know what to expect if they buy from you, and they ’ ll feel more confident and at ease. setting clear policies also enables you to head off problems down the road. etsy offers several options to help you configure and communicate your policies. it also offers a few “ fixed ” policies. these apply to everyone ’ s shop and cannot be changed. you access these from the policy settings page in the shop manager. after you set your policies, they appear on your shop ’ s main page in the shop policies section, in each of your listings, and in emails sent to buyers when they make a purchase. you can also create different policies to cover different items in your shop. in case you want to implement additional policies above and beyond those that appear in the policy settings page, you can create a frequently asked questions ( faq ) section for your shop to cover your bases. this faq section appears below your shop policies. finally, if you plan to sell in the eu, you ’ re required to ensure that your privacy policy complies with eu regulations, and to supply your own personal info to buyers. this info appears under your faq ( assuming you have one ), but is visible only to shoppers in the eu. you can avert a lot of crises by establishing clear store policies. however, you ’ ll still face the occasional conflict with customers. when that happens, you need to take three actions : communicate, communicate, and communicate. oh, and one more thing : communicate. for more on dealing with disagreements and other customer service issues, see chapter 15. fair play : general policy tips before we get into policy specifics in the rest of this chapter, we want to talk in general terms about what, apart from honesty, constitutes a good policy. a good policy has two key characteristics : it ’ s fair. yes, you put policies in place to protect your business. but a good policy also protects your customers. each shop policy should be one for which you would be grateful if, through some amazing breach in the space - time continuum, you were your customer. it ’ s simple. although it ’ s important to use your words, you don ’ t want to use too many of them when crafting your shop policies. keep your policies simple, clear, and concise. when it comes to setting your shop ’ s policies, you have a lot of leeway. different shops ’ policies are often as unique as the items they sell. with that being said, you do need to adhere to etsy ’ s terms of use and respect the site ’ s house rules. and, of course, you must comply with all local and federal laws. policy wonk : using etsy ’ s policy settings as mentioned, you set and communicate your shop policies on the policy settings page. to access this page, follow these steps : 1. click the shop manager link in the header bar that appears along the top of every etsy marketplace page. the shop manager opens. 2. in the left pane of the shop manager, click settings ; then click policy settings. the policy settings page opens. ( see figure 8 - 1. ) source : etsy. com figure 8 - 1 : the policy settings page. as shown in figure 8 - 1, this page contains the following tabs : returns & exchanges cancellations privacy fixed policies the following sections explain each of these tabs. returns & exchanges obviously, you want all your customers to love your items. but — no disrespect intended — sometimes they won ’ t. ( what? we said “ no disrespect ”! ) when that happens, you need to refer buyers to your policy on returns and exchanges. you create this policy in the returns & exchanges tab of the policy settings page. etsy gives you the option of applying a preconfigured “ simple ” policy that allows returns and exchanges for 30 days and stipulates that the buyer pays all return shipping costs as well as any loss in value if the item is not returned in its original condition. you can also create custom policies for returns and exchanges, and apply different policies for different types of items when you create your item listings. ( see chapter 12 for more on creating item listings. ) to apply the simple shop - wide policy, click the use simple policy link in the returns & exchanges tab of the policy settings page. ( refer to figure 8 - 1. ) figure 8 - 2 shows the result. source : etsy. com figure 8 - 2 : a simple shop - wide returns and cancellations policy has been applied. as for creating a custom policy, here ’ s what you do : 1. in the refunds & exchanges tab of the policy settings page, click the create policy link. the tab expands to display additional options ( see figure 8 - 3 ) : returns : toggle this setting on to accept returns exchanges. exchanges : toggle this setting on to accept returns. buyer must contact me and ship item back within : use this drop - down list to indicate how long the buyer has to contact you and ship the item back. options range from 7 days of delivery to 90 days of delivery. conditions of return : this section of the edit policy settings contains boilerplate text : “ buyer is responsible for return shipping costs ” and “ buyer is responsible for loss in value ( as agreed upon with seller ) if an item isn ’ t returned in original condition. ” 2. make your selections and then click save and apply. if you mostly like the “ simple ” setting, but there ’ s just one thing about it that you ’ d like to change, click the pencil icon next to its entry on the returns & exchanges tab ( refer to figure 8 - 2 ) to display the edit policy settings and make whatever changes you like. source : etsy. com figure 8 - 3 : the returns & exchanges tab on the etsy policy settings page. cancellations why would someone want to cancel an order? maybe they ordered the wrong thing. maybe they got cold feet. maybe they thought they won the lottery but found out they were looking at last week ’ s ticket. ( hey, it happens. ) it ’ s up to you whether you want to accept cancellations. some sellers do ; some sellers don ’ t. either way, the cancellations tab on the policy settings page allows you to impart your policy to your buyers. ( see figure 8 - 4. ) source : etsy. com figure 8 - 4 : the cancellations tab on the etsy policy settings page. by default, the cancellations option is turned off by default. in other words, your shop won ’ t accept cancellations. if you do want to accept cancellations, follow these steps : 1. in the cancellations tab of the policy settings page, toggle the cancellations button to on. the tab expands to display additional options ( see figure 8 - 5 ). 2. click the down arrow in the buyer can request a cancellation drop - down box and choose before item has shipped, a numeral to represent a number of hours, or a numeral to represent a number of days. 3. click the publish button. source : etsy. com figure 8 - 5 : allow cancellations. privacy etsy encourages every shop owner ( which includes you ) to include a privacy policy on their shop page. in a nutshell, this policy should convey what steps you ’ ll take to protect a buyer ’ s personal data. you enter your privacy policy from the privacy tab on the policy settings page. ( see figure 8 - 6. ) when it comes to composing your privacy policy, just winging it won ’ t do. your policy must be clear and thorough. otherwise, you might put your buyers or yourself at risk. fortunately, etsy has published a sample privacy policy that you can adapt for your own use, along with various helpful tips. source : etsy. com figure 8 - 6 : the privacy tab on the policy settings page. to create your privacy policy, follow these steps : 1. in the privacy tab of the policy settings page, click the create policy button. ( refer to figure 8 - 6. ) the tab expands to display additional options. ( see figure 8 - 7. ) source : etsy. com figure 8 - 7 : set your privacy policy. 2. to view etsy ’ s sample policy, click the sample privacy policy link. 3. after you compose your privacy policy ( using etsy ’ s sample policy as your guide ) and you ’ re confident it ’ s up to snuff, type it in the privacy policy box. 4. click publish. gdpr tl / dr the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) is a european union ( eu ) regulation that restricts the collection, use, and transmission of personal data. if you plan to sell to customers in the eu — even if you don ’ t live there yourself — your shop ’ s privacy policy must adhere to the gdpr. this means accounting for the following : what personal information you collect the legal basis on which you are collecting, using, and sharing this personal information any third parties you share this personal information with how long you will keep this personal information whether and how you will transfer this personal information outside europe the buyer ’ s rights with respect to the use of their personal information how buyers can contact you with privacy - related questions or requests in addition to ensuring that your privacy policy covers all this information, you also need to provide a bit of information about yourself to comply with eu requirements. see the section “ hey, eu! adding seller details for eu compliance, ” later in this chapter, for more information. viewing fixed policies as mentioned, etsy includes a few fixed policies. these apply sitewide and can ’ t be changed. they pertain to estimated delivery dates as well as customs and import taxes. to view these policies, click the fixed policies tab on the policy settings page. ( see figure 8 - 8. ) viewing your shop policies after you enter the necessary policy - related information into the various tabs of the policy settings page, you can check out how they look on your shop page. here ’ s how : 1. in the left pane of the shop manager, under sales channels, click your shop ’ s name. the main page of your shop opens. 2. scroll down to the shop policies section of your shop page. ( see figure 8 - 9. ) source : etsy. com figure 8 - 8 : view fixed policies. you can edit your shop policies anytime you like using the policy settings page. source : etsy. com figure 8 - 9 : view your shop policies. hey, eu! adding seller details for eu compliance if you plan to sell in the eu, and you are a professional seller or you identify as an incorporated business on etsy ( or both ), you must share certain info with your buyers, like your full name, business address, email address, and phone number. you do this by adding these details to your shop ’ s main page, under your shop policies. here ’ s how : 1. open the edit shop page in the shop manager and scroll down to the seller details section. ( see figure 8 - 10. ) source : etsy. com figure 8 - 10 : add seller details to comply with eu regulations. 2. under status, next to private individual, click the edit link. 3. select the trader option button. then click save. 4. click the add contact info link. the seller details section expands to display several text boxes. 5. supply the requested information — your first and last name, business address, email address, and phone number. 6. click save. that ’ s a faq, jack! fielding frequently asked questions the policy settings page is great, but it doesn ’ t cover everything. so, etsy provides yet another way for you to pin down your policies : by including a frequently asked questions ( faq ) section on your shop ’ s main page. for example, you might use the faq section to indicate whether you accept custom or personalized items, whether you offer gift - wrapping services, and whether you offer items wholesale. you could also use the faq section to convey information such as sizing details or care instructions. or if potential buyers often ask the same question ( “ are your sweaters really knit from kitten hair? ” ), you can choose the custom option to provide your answer ( “ yes ” ). to add a faq section to your shop, follow these steps : 1. in the left pane of the shop manager, under sales channels, click the pencil icon next to your shop name. the edit shop page opens. 2. scroll down to the frequently asked questions section. 3. click the add an faq link. the section expands to display a question drop - down list and an answer text box. ( see figure 8 - 11. ) source : etsy. com figure 8 - 11 : create a faq. 4. click the question drop - down list and select from the available options. options include custom and personalized orders, sizing details, care instructions, gift wrapping and packaging, wholesale availability, and custom. if you select custom, a new text box appears under the question drop - down list, where you can type a custom question. 5. type your answer to the question in the answer field. 6. click save. etsy adds the question and answer to the main page of your etsy shop, just below your shop policies. ( click the view shop button to see it. ) 7. to add more questions and answers, repeat steps 3 through 6. chapter 9 the price is right! pricing your pieces in this chapter understanding pricing formulas making sure your prices make sense assessing the value of vintage items pricing items to move during sales years ago, a close friend developed a keen business idea : the million - dollar hot dog. the million - dollar hot dog would be just like any other hot dog, except that it would cost a million dollars. yes, demand for the million - dollar hot dog may be low. but as our friend rightly pointed out, “ you really only ever need to sell one! ” too many etsy sellers err on the other end of the spectrum. they underestimate the worth of their items, and so they underprice them. but this poses its own set of problems. for one thing, you lose out on profits. for another, it can create the impression that your items are of low quality. the trick is to strike a balance. you want to price your pieces high enough to cover your costs and turn a healthy profit. but you need to price them low enough that you can sell a reasonable volume of goods. finding that sweet spot is the focus of this chapter. underestimating the value of your work doesn ’ t just hurt you ; it hurts everyone who ’ s trying to earn a living selling handmade goods. deflated prices are bad all the way around! formula one : pricing formulas not all creative types share a general distaste for math, but lots of us do. unfortunately, if you hope to run a profitable etsy shop, you need to get comfortable with doing a little arithmetic, especially when it comes to pricing your pieces. but don ’ t freak out! we ’ re not talking calculus here, or even trigonometry. all you have to learn are two very simple formulas : calculating the cost of materials when calculating your cost for materials, include the price of every little component in your piece. for example, suppose you sell handmade puppy plush toys for babies. your material cost for each pup may include the cost of fabric, a label, rickrack, stuffing, and thread. what matters here is the cost of what you used to produce one piece. for example, suppose you spent $ 125 on materials to produce 50 plush pups. to calculate the price of materials per piece, you divide $ 125 by 50, for a total of $ 2. 50 per piece. figuring labor costs what if, while perusing the want ads in your local newspaper, you happened upon this listing : wanted : skilled professional to expertly fabricate product by hand. must also run every aspect of business, including sourcing supplies, maintaining and marketing shop, interacting with customers, and ensuring that items sold are artfully packaged and shipped to buyers. pay : $ 0. odds are, that ’ s a job you ’ d pass up. and yet, many etsy sellers pay themselves exactly nada to run their shops. don ’ t fall into this trap! like anyone, you deserve to be compensated for your work. your pricing formula must include the cost of your labor. to calculate your labor costs, first set an hourly rate for your time. be sure to pay yourself a fair wage — one that accounts for the skill required to craft your piece. also think about how much you want or need to earn for your time. if you ’ re just starting out, you may opt for a lower hourly rate. you can give always yourself periodic raises as your skills improve. another approach to figuring your hourly rate is to work backward. that is, figure out how much you need to be able to “ bill ” for each day and divide that by the number of hours you intend to work. so say you need to earn $ 160 a day and you plan to work eight hours a day. you simply divide $ 160 by 8 for an hourly rate of $ 20. we aren ’ t saying you should charge $ 20 an hour! this is just an easy round number that works well for this example. armed with your hourly rate, you ’ re ready to work out your labor costs. these costs must take into account the time it takes to design a piece, shop for supplies for the piece, construct the piece, photograph the piece, create the item listing for the piece ( including composing the item title and description ), correspond with the buyer, and package and ship the item. as with materials costs ( described in the previous section ), you can amortize some of your labor costs — that is, you can spread them out. for example, if it took you four hours to develop the design for a piece, but you plan to make 50 of them, you can amortize those four hours over the 50 finished pieces. similarly, you likely shop for supplies for several pieces at one time, meaning that you can spread the time you spend shopping across all the projects that you plan to craft using those supplies. if you ’ re collaborating with others, you want to make sure that you include the cost of their labor as well! let ’ s use those plush toy pups as an example. suppose you spend four hours designing your toy and another hour shopping for enough supplies to construct 50 units. assuming that your hourly rate is $ 20, your labor cost is $ 100 — or, spread out over 50 toys, $ 2 per toy. suppose further that each toy takes 30 minutes to make, photograph, and package ( $ 10 in labor ). ( yes, we know, 30 minutes is on the low end. humor us. it makes the math easier. ) your labor cost per toy is then $ 12. adding up overhead your overhead may encompass tools and equipment used in the manufacture of your products, office supplies, packaging supplies, utilities ( for example, your internet connection, electricity used to power your sewing machine, and so on ), and etsy fees. ( note : these costs don ’ t include shipping. you generally calculate these costs separately and pass them along to the buyer. more on shipping costs in a moment. ) as with labor costs, you need to amortize your overhead costs — totaling them up and then spreading them out over all the items you make. as a simple example, if you calculate your monthly overhead at $ 50, and you produce 50 pieces a month as with those plush pups, your overhead is $ 1 per piece. of course, this calculation gets tricky when your overhead involves purchases of items like tools and equipment used in the manufacture of your products. in those cases, you want to amortize the items over their life span. for example, maybe you ’ ve bought a $ 250 sewing machine that you plan to use for five years. in that time, you anticipate that you ’ ll sew 500 pieces. your overhead for the machine is then 50¢ per piece. if you simply can ’ t face calculating all these overhead costs, add up your materials cost and your labor cost for each piece you make, multiply the sum by 10 or 15 percent, and call that your overhead. it won ’ t exactly reflect your actual overhead, but it ’ ll probably be in the ballpark. understanding the “ times 2 ” at the start of “ formula one : pricing formulas, ” earlier in this chapter, we provide the wholesale pricing formula, which calls for adding together your costs for materials, labor, and overhead and then multiplying the sum by 2. what ’ s up with that? that “ times 2 ” covers a host of things. it ’ s your profit. it ’ s what you invest back in your business. if your sewing machine breaks, the “ times 2 ” is what you use to buy a new one. if you decide to expand your product line, that “ times 2 ” is where you find the capital you need to grow. or you may just use your “ times 2 ” to build a nice nest egg for your business or a fund to fall back on if times get tough. you may feel uncomfortable with all this two - timing, thinking that your labor costs are your “ profit. ” don ’ t. yes, you may be paying yourself to make your products, but if your business grows, that may not always be the case. multiplying your costs by 2 enables you to ensure that your business is profitable, regardless of how it ’ s structured. pricing for wholesale and retail as the proprietor of your own small manufacturing business, you need to establish two prices for your goods : the wholesale price and the retail price. the wholesale price is for customers who buy large quantities of your item to resell it. that customer then sells your piece to someone else at the retail price, which is usually ( though not always ) double the wholesale price. as mentioned, to determine the retail price, you typically multiply the wholesale price by 2 and add shipping costs. some sellers choose a higher operand — for example, multiplying the wholesale price by 2. 5 or even 3 to determine the retail price ( assuming that the market will bear it ). we know what you ’ re thinking : “ i ’ m going to sell my stuff only through my etsy shop, so i ’ ll just charge everyone my wholesale price. ” right? wrong! even if you plan to sell your items exclusively through etsy, you need to establish both a wholesale price and a retail price, and you need to sell your pieces on etsy at the retail rate. why? two reasons. first, even if you have no plans to expand beyond your etsy shop, you don ’ t want to cheat yourself of the chance to offer wholesale prices to bulk buyers if the opportunity arises. and second, you ’ ll almost certainly want to run the occasional sale in your etsy shop. pricing your goods for retail gives you some leeway to discount them as needed and still turn a profit. ( more on running sales in a minute. ) adjusting for free shipping and handling anymore, thanks to big - box businesses ( think : amazon ), most online shoppers pretty much expect free shipping — including shoppers on etsy. in fact, according to etsy, shoppers on the site are 20 percent more likely to complete a purchase if shipping and handling are free. to facilitate this, etsy enables shop owners ( read : you ) to offer a free shipping guarantee. this guarantee automatically applies free shipping and handling to buyers in the u. s. when they spend $ 35 or more in your shop. note : as an added bonus, etsy ’ s search algorithms prioritize items that ship for free, making it easier for buyers to find them. if you want to offer free shipping and handling on all orders, not just orders over $ 35, you can create and apply a special “ free shipping ” shipping profile. chapter 13 shows you how. enabling the free shipping guarantee if you decide you want your etsy shop to offer a free shipping guarantee, you need to perform a few steps to set it up. to start, click settings link on the left side of the shop manager, click shipping settings, and click the free shipping guarantee tab. next, click get started to open the set a free shipping guarantee dialog box and click set free shipping now. etsy confirms that you ’ ve set up your free shipping guarantee ; click got it. ugh. does all this mean you have to eat your shipping and handling costs anytime people avail themselves of your free shipping guarantee? negatory. it just means you need to factor these costs into the price for each item you list. so, if shipping and handling an item will set you back $ 5, you need to up that item ’ s listing price by that same amount. ( for help editing a listing, including changing its price, see chapter 12. ) your shipping and handling costs aren ’ t limited to postage. as you find out in chapter 13, they also include mailing supplies, like an envelope or box, tissue, tape, and whatnot, not to mention labor. putting it all together to help you get comfortable with pricing your pieces, we run through an example using the puppy plush toys mentioned earlier. to recap, the cost of materials for each toy is $ 2. 50 ; your total labor rate is $ 12 per item ; and your overhead for each piece is $ 1. oh, and say shipping sets you back $ 5. your pricing equation, then, looks something like this : as you become more adept and efficient at crafting or sourcing your pieces and running your business, your profit margin will naturally improve. price - a - roni : evaluating your prices the pricing formulas in the preceding section are a great way to determine your wholesale and retail prices. but they simply compute the price you need to charge for your piece to turn a healthy profit — not what the market may actually bear. to calculate that, you need to do a little research. assessing your competition ’ s pricing to identify the price point that your market will bear, start by scoping out your competition, both on and off etsy. if their prices are roughly in line with yours, you ’ re probably in good shape. if they ’ re significantly higher or lower, put yourself in your prospective buyer ’ s shoes and ask these questions : would i buy my product or a competitor ’ s product? why? is my product made of better materials than my competitors ’ products? did crafting my product require more skill than my competitors ’ products? is my product different or special in any way? what do i think my product is worth? your answers to these questions will help you determine whether you need to adjust your price upward or downward. for example, if your product is better made than your competitor ’ s, you may be able to adjust your price upward. ditto if it required more skill to build. of course, if the opposite is true, you may need to lower your price. your competition doesn ’ t consist only of people who make items like yours but rather is anyone targeting the same market as you. using the puppy plush example, your competition wouldn ’ t be just shops that sell puppy plush toys ; it would be any shop that sells handmade toys or gifts for babies. studying your target market in gauging your price, you also need to consider your target market. who, in your estimation, will buy your piece? how much disposable income does that person have? if your target market consists of 20 - something hipsters, chances are they ’ re not quite as flush as, say, the 40 - something set, so you may need to keep your prices lower. on the flip side, if that 40 - something set is the market you ’ re after, you may be able to command a higher price. people often shop for gifts with a certain price point in mind — say, $ 25 for a friend or $ 50 for a family member. if your product is aimed at this market, ask yourself, who ’ s the ultimate recipient for this gift? a best friend? an acquaintance? someone ’ s nephew? then think about what most people would spend on a gift for that person and price your piece accordingly. as an aside, offering products at different price points is a great way to increase your customer base. for example, say you specialize in ceramics. in that case, you may make ceramic mugs to sell at a lower price point ; simple, medium - sized bowls to sell at a slightly higher price point ; and ornate platters to sell at a premium price point. this structure enables you to reach a larger range of potential buyers, which could help you increase your overall sales. as a bonus, this strategy is also a great way to nose out your niche in the market, because it quickly reveals which products your buyers respond to best. figuring out how to lower your prices if your research has revealed that your prices will likely give your market sticker shock, you may need to lower them. the best way to do this is to lower your own costs. ask yourself : can i purchase my materials more cheaply from a different supplier? can i spend less time making each piece? can i redesign my product to require less in the way of supplies or labor — say, omitting the decorative rickrack piping on my plush pup? after you manage to lower your costs, apply the formulas we talk about earlier in the chapter to determine the new price. don ’ t lower your prices to compete with machine - made items. handmade goods inherently have more value and should be priced accordingly. you may be able to increase sales by bundling your items — selling multiple items together, as a package deal. knowing when to raise your prices in some circumstances, you need to lower your price. but other times you can charge — wait for it — more. people perceive some products to be more valuable than others — even if, from a practical standpoint, they ’ re not. consider how some painters command stratospheric prices for their paintings. it ’ s not because their raw materials were substantially more expensive — paint and canvas cost pretty much the same for everybody. and it ’ s not that their paintings took longer to create. no, these paintings are insanely expensive because the public perceives them to be valuable. when pricing your items, try taking advantage of this notion of perceived value and position your pieces as premium products. maybe you employ exceptional materials in crafting your piece. or maybe you use a unique technique that makes your piece especially durable. buyers will also perceive your work as more valuable if you ’ ve developed a reputation as an artist by showing your pieces at galleries or gaining publicity in some other way. talk up your work in your shop and your item listings. share why your pieces are valuable. for example, if you not only craft necklaces but also make your own beads, say so. if you use only the best organic cotton to sew your baby clothes, include words to that effect. if you use a particularly difficult technique that only a few other people have mastered, spell that out, too. sometimes just tagging your piece with a higher price can make buyers perceive it as more valuable. of course, that doesn ’ t mean you should offer some useless doodad at an outrageous price. ( remember the million - dollar hot dog we mention earlier in this chapter? ) people will see right through that ploy. but if you offer an item that ’ s beautifully crafted and truly special, you may be able to capitalize on this perception phenomenon. if demand for an item you sell is so high that you simply can ’ t keep up, it may be an indication that you ’ ve priced it too low. on the flip side, when items don ’ t sell, many shop owners assume it ’ s because they ’ re priced too high. however, it may also be the case that your price is too low. before you start slashing prices in your store, try raising them. you may be pleasantly surprised by the result! evaluate and adjust your prices on at least an annual basis. the beginning of the new year is a good time to bump up prices. or maybe when an item sells out, raise the price when you restock it. something old : pricing vintage items if your etsy shop specializes in the sale of vintage goodies rather than handmade items, you can forget about everything we ’ ve discussed so far in this chapter. no “ formula ” exists for pricing these types of items. instead, you must rely on your knowledge of the piece. specifically, you want to be armed with the following information : what is the piece? obviously, you want to know what, exactly, you have for sale. how old is the piece? older pieces tend to be more valuable than newer ones — especially if they are in good condition. what company manufactured the piece? certain manufacturers are held in higher esteem than others. that ’ s why a tiffany lamp is a lot more valuable than one made by another company and can command a much higher price. what condition is the piece in? clearly, an item in good condition can command a higher price than one that appears to have passed through a farm thresher. how desirable is the piece? items that are rare or highly collectible generate much more interest than run - of - the - mill pieces. how much did it set you back? assuming you bought the item ( instead of, say, unearthing it in your aunt mildred ’ s attic ), take into account how much you paid for it, as well as any costs you incurred to find it, research it, clean it up, fix any broken bits, and so on. if you ’ re still not sure where to start, try scoping out the competition. search etsy ( or even ebay ) to see whether any other sellers have listed something similar, and if so, for how much. assuming your piece is in the same basic condition, you can price your item accordingly. no current listings? in that case, try using a tool like etsy sold. it ’ s a google chrome browser extension that reveals the selling price of items that have already sold on etsy. if you ’ re really serious about selling vintage items, and you intend to move a lot of them, consider subscribing to an online antiques pricing guide like worthpoint ( ). it ’ ll cost you, but it may be https : / / www. worthpoint. com / worth the expense. how low can you go? pricing for sales many businesses use any excuse to run a sale ( “ it ’ s arbor day! take 20 percent off! ” ) in an attempt to draw in loads of customers and move more merchandise. although this may be an effective strategy for mass - market stores, it ’ s not the best model for your etsy shop. running frequent sales not only devalues your work but also trains your customers to buy from you only when you ’ re running some type of promotion. that ’ s not to say, however, that you should never run a sale. for example, you may run a once - a - year sale to celebrate your store ’ s anniversary, or a twice - a - year sale to move seasonal inventory. another idea is to create a permanent “ sale ” section in your etsy shop for discontinued, seasonal, or experimental pieces. or you can generate coupon codes for potential or valuable customers. ( etsy makes generating coupon codes easy, as you see in chapter 14. ) when you do run a sale, you want to ensure that you still turn a profit on your items — or at least break even. fortunately, you can easily do so if you use the formula outlined earlier in this chapter to price your goods and list them at the retail price. you can then discount them and still make money. you don ’ t have to create a new listing for items when you put them on sale. you can apply a sweeping discount to your whole shop or to just a few items. chapter 14 tells you how. part 3 sell coverage : understanding the etsy selling process in this part … get the skinny on photographing your wares. discover how to write an engaging listing title and description. find out how to list an item. get tips on making the final sale. check out the different ways to ship your wares. chapter 10 say cheese! capturing product images in this chapter picking a camera and setting up your shoot exploring lighting, composition, and focus making videos working your magic with editing software shoppers can ’ t sniff, lick, hear, or handle the goodies in your etsy shop. they must evaluate each item based only on sight, by way of product photos and videos. it ’ s no wonder that according to etsy ’ s own research, 90 percent of customers say that image quality is the most important factor in their decision to buy ( or not ). subpar images just won ’ t cut it. as an etsy shop owner, it ’ s incumbent on you to supply potential buyers with captivating images of your products. it ’ s not enough for the photos and videos that you include in your item listings to communicate the size, shape, color, texture, and function of those items ; they must convey this information beautifully. in addition to conveying important information about your item, your listing photos and videos must also reflect your brand. for example, if your brand is whimsical, your listing photos should be, too. ditto if your brand is masculine, industrial, preppy, or whatever. ( for more on branding, see chapter 14. ) is this a tall order? yes. but here ’ s the good news : anyone can learn how to capture exquisite photos and videos, often using equipment they ( you! ) already have on hand. that ’ s what this chapter is about. you can find lots of photography resources on etsy. here ’ s a good place to start : https : / / www. etsy. com / seller -. handbook / article / 143986679284 choosing a digital camera when it comes to photographing your wares for your etsy shop, you don ’ t need some fancy digital camera. in fact, the camera in your smartphone ( or other mobile device, like a tablet ) will almost certainly suffice. it ’ s not as good as a dedicated camera, but it can absolutely capture clear and compelling photos and videos for your etsy shop. using the camera on your smartphone can be a ginormous timesaver. you can use your phone ’ s photo - editing tools to clean up your photos and videos and then upload them straight to your shop from the etsy seller app. maybe you ’ re looking for more control over your images. in that case, you can go the dedicated digital camera route — either a point - and - shoot camera or a digital single - lens reflex ( dslr ) camera. both intuitive automatic options give a bit more of a say in terms of how your images turn out. these automatic options adjust three important internal settings — aperture size, shutter speed, and iso — to generate different effects. for example, the landscape setting keeps the whole frame in focus ; the portrait setting places the foreground object in focus and slightly blurs the background ; the close - up ( or macro ) setting is tuned for extreme close - ups ; the sport setting works great for moving objects ; and so forth. if you ’ re really picky about your images, and you have a dslr camera, you can switch to manual mode. in manual mode, you identify the best combo of aperture, shutter speed, and iso settings to achieve the effect you ’ re after. and, with a dslr, you can swap out lenses — for example, a macro lens for extreme close - ups. of course, all this requires a bit more know - how! if you ’ re in the market for a new camera, get the best model you can afford — preferably one that shoots video, too. and don ’ t be turned off by gently used models. they can be just the ticket for an etsy seller, at a much lower price! while you ’ re at it, maybe pick up an adjustable tripod to steady your shots. let ’ s get technical : aperture, shutter speed, and iso a camera ’ s aperture is the hole through which light passes as it travels from the camera ’ s lens to its sensor. ( in digital cameras, the sensor replaces the film used in old - timey cameras. ) the size of this aperture, which is dictated by the camera ’ s f - stop setting, determines the resulting image ’ s depth of field — or how much of the area in front of and behind the subject appears in focus. a large aperture ( which has a lower f - stop setting ) produces an image with a shallow depth of field. think of this as the photo equivalent of a mullet : clear in the front and blurry in the back. in contrast, a small aperture ( with a higher f - stop setting ) results in an image with a deep depth of field, in which the background, subject, and foreground are all in focus. a camera ’ s shutter is a mechanism between the camera ’ s aperture and its sensor that opens and closes when you take a picture to let light through. as you may guess, the camera ’ s shutter speed — measured in fractions of a second — controls how long this shutter stays open. finally, the iso setting regulates how sensitive the camera ’ s sensor is to light. a higher iso setting ( such as 1600 ) yields more sensitivity than a lower iso ( like 200 ). these three settings work in concert to achieve an optimal exposure. ( exposure refers to the amount of light that strikes a digital camera ’ s sensor. ) so if one of these settings changes, the other two need to change, too. for example, if the aperture is smaller, letting less light through, the shutter speed needs to be slower and / or the iso needs to be higher ( more sensitive ) to ensure the resulting image isn ’ t underexposed ( too dark ). conversely, if the aperture is larger, letting more light through, the shutter speed needs to be faster and / or the iso needs to be lower ( less sensitive ) so that the resulting image isn ’ t overexposed ( too light ). style guide : styling your shoot photographers who specialize in product shoots often employ stylists — people who work closely with the photographer and other professionals to ensure that the shot contains all the necessary elements. indeed, high - profile shoots — for example, shoots for magazine advertisements, brochures, and the like — may well have multiple stylists on set, including prop stylists, food stylists, and wardrobe stylists, not to mention full - blown set designers. mix it up! types of product shots etsy provides slots for 10 photos in each item listing, and you should fill as many of them as you can. your best bet is to include studio shots ( showing your product from multiple angles with a plain background ), a close - up shot ( to bring out fine details ), a snap for scale ( a shot of your product on a model or next to a recognizable object like a coin or a notebook to show its size ), and some lifestyle shots ( to show your product in its “ natural habitat ” ). you may also include a group shot ( a gaggle of your products clustered together ), a process shot ( to emphasize the workmanship involved ), and a packaging shot ( so that your buyer will know what to expect when they receive your item or if they purchase it as a gift ). finally, if the item is vintage and has any visible wear, you ’ ll need a shot or two to show that, too. chances are the shoots you conduct for your etsy shop won ’ t look anything like these affairs. still, you can adopt some of the practices of these style pros when you photograph products for your etsy shop by using backgrounds, props, and live models, for example. these can complement and emphasize the pieces you photograph while also conveying important information about them, like their color, size, shape, texture, function, and usefulness. using backgrounds many etsy sellers opt for a white or light - gray seamless background, or sweep, when photographing their products because they ’ re crisp, simple, neutral, and uncluttered. ( see figure 10 - 1. ) this type of background is perfect for so - called “ studio ” shots meant to depict your product from various angles. photo courtesy of jessica mastrangelo ( https : / / www. etsy. com / shop / patternbehavior ) figure 10 - 1 : call attention to your item with a white seamless background. an easy way to create a seamless background is to tape one end of a long sheet of thick paper — the kind you cut from a roll — to your wall. then let it drape down onto a table, where you can clamp the other end. remember, though, that each item listing should include a variety of product photos, both to convey different things about the product and to capture a potential buyer ’ s interest. so you ’ ll likely want to use a variety of backgrounds. we ’ re big on architectural backgrounds, like stone walls, whitewashed fences, iron trellises, barnwood, subway tile, exposed brick — you get the idea. these types of backgrounds can complement your piece and add an element of interest to your product photos. ( see figure 10 - 2. ) also, they ’ re usually pretty easy to find — maybe even in your own home or at a friend ’ s. outdoor backgrounds — gardens, parks, beaches, and so on — are good, too. photo courtesy of bethany rusen ( https : / / www. etsy. com / shop / stanleychesteralbert ) figure 10 - 2 : architectural backgrounds add an element of interest to product photos. for delicate or finely made items, consider using a mildly reflective background — say, a sterling platter or a white ceramic plate. in addition to adding interest, these types of background surfaces can improve lighting, too. a paper background in a contrasting color can really make your piece pop. subtle patterns that complement your piece also work well. your local craft store likely carries 12 - x - 12 - inch scrapbook paper in more colors and patterns than you ever dreamed possible. just steer clear of patterns that are super busy. be warned : although black is indisputably the color of choice for ninjas, it ’ s not so great as a background color for goodies destined for your etsy shop — especially darker pieces. an almost - black background — charcoal, maybe — is better, especially if it has a bit of texture for visual interest. you also want to avoid “ accidental ” backgrounds, like that pile of newspapers you keep forgetting to recycle, or some random guy in the corner of the frame. make sure that any background you include in your product shots is there on purpose! on a related note, cluttered backgrounds are also a no - no. oh, and don ’ t give your background star billing. if your background is more noticeable than the item you ’ re selling, don ’ t use it. although each of your listings should contain product photos with a variety of backgrounds — such as a seamless sweep or an architectural background — you should employ the same ( or similar ) set of backgrounds for all your listings so that your shop pages look and feel cohesive. working with props props are a great way to add visual interest to your product photos or to communicate something important about the item you ’ re selling, like the following : its size : placing your piece on or near a universal prop — something everyone recognizes, like a coin, a pencil, a chair, a toy, a book, a spool of thread ( see figure 10 - 3 ), or whatnot — conveys its size. how it is used : putting your piece in its “ natural environment ” illustrates both what it is and what it does. for example, if you craft gorgeous place cards, you may position one atop a lovely vintage plate. or if you construct wooden serving boards, you can put some bread and cheese food items on it ( see figure 10 - 4 ). how it was made : knitting needles, embroidery hoops, pliers, cutters, paintbrushes, pencils, scissors, blowtorches — all these constitute excellent props, adding interest by conveying how the piece was made. what inspired it : did your love of forestry inspire your piece? then a branch or pinecone may make an excellent prop. ( see figure 10 - 5. ) alternatively, if the epiphany for your piece came while you were while strolling along the seashore, you may use a seashell as a prop. to complement your piece : a great way to create interest in your product shots is to place your piece alongside an object that complements it visually. maybe the object you use as a prop is a complementary color — for example, the object is violet, and your piece is yellow. or maybe the object reflects the genre of your piece in some way — say, the object is a vintage bowling pin, and your piece is a hand - sewn bowling shirt. photo courtesy of zeynep eroglu ( https : / / www. etsy. com / shop / zeynny ) figure 10 - 3 : a universal prop can convey the size of your piece. photo courtesy of cody hughes ( https : / / www. etsy. com / shop / untitledcodesign ) figure 10 - 4 : feature a prop that suggests how to use your piece. photo courtesy of sara christensen ( https : / / www. etsy. com / shop / bluelilycandles ) figure 10 - 5 : try using a prop that suggests what inspired your piece. you can also use seasonal or holiday - themed props, especially if your item would make a great gift. the swell thing about props is, they ’ re everywhere! you can find them in your garden shed, garage, craft closet, attic … we could go on. just be sure you use the right props. you don ’ t want your props to overshadow your item or confuse potential buyers as to what exactly is for sale. experiment with lots of different props, and shoot them from lots of different angles, to see what works best. employing live models yes, live models can be terrible divas. but when they ’ re not busy pouting, models — whether they ’ re babies, kids, adults, or your pet hamster — can do wonders for your product photos. live models are especially effective for pieces that are meant to be worn, because they can help convey the size of your piece or how it fits. for example, suppose your piece is a gorgeous vintage necklace. if you photograph that necklace with only a simple white background, a potential customer may not be able to get a handle on its length. but if you also photograph the necklace on a live model, that customer will be able to deduce at a glance how long it is and how it rests on the decolletage. the same goes if you sell clothes : photographing them on a live model shows potential customers exactly how they ’ ll fit. ( look ahead to figure 10 - 9. ) live models also humanize your pieces. when a potential customer sees a live model wearing your item, they inevitably imagine it looking just as fantastic on themselves. the same is true when you show a model using your item : customers naturally imagine themselves using it in the same way. of course, you can ’ t use just any models ; you want models who reflect your brand and your target audience. for example, if your brand and target audience are on the edgy end of the spectrum, your models should be, too. it may be the case that you are your target audience. if so, consider modeling your own pieces. friends and family are other obvious ( and inexpensive ) choices — again, assuming they ’ re appropriate for your shop ’ s aesthetic. but if you ’ re selling a premium item, consider investing in a pro. lighting bug : lighting your shot no matter what you ’ re photographing, good lighting is essential. without it, your camera simply can ’ t capture the color, texture, and details of your piece. the good news is, you don ’ t need to sell your plasma to afford an expensive lighting rig. when it comes to photographing goodies bound for your etsy shop, natural lighting — say, from a north - facing window or outside on an overcast day — is by far the most flattering light source. natural lighting also enables you to capture the colors and texture of your piece. on the topic of shooting outside, a word of advice : avoid direct sunlight — the kind you get when a ) the sun is high in the sky and b ) there are no clouds — to prevent harsh shadows. instead, find a shady spot and set up your photo shoot there. even better, try to capture your photos during the “ golden hour, ” when the sun is low in the sky, right after it rises or just before it sets. the natural light during these periods is as flattering as a smoky eye. note : like direct sunlight, using a flash also results in harsh shadows. if you can ’ t get around shooting in direct sunlight or using a flash, try holding a sheer curtain or white tissue paper above your piece or over the flash. doing so will diffuse the light and soften your shot. ( see figure 10 - 6. ) or use homegrown reflectors — for example, white poster board, a hanging bed sheet, aluminum foil, or a mirror — to bounce light onto your piece rather than illuminating it directly. another way to diffuse light is to use a light tent or light box — a small structure made of transparent white fabric or plastic in which you place your item to photograph it. ( obviously, this won ’ t work for larger items. ) you can buy a light tent at a photography store or online on sites like amazon and ebay, or you can build your own. for help, visit www. etsy. com / seller - handbook / article / how - to - make - your - own -. photography / 22926118925 photo courtesy of katie sandridge ( https : / / www. etsy. com / shop / paintedladypottery ) figure 10 - 6 : diffused lighting softens an image and makes it more appealing. just make sure you have enough light. otherwise, you ’ ll wind up with blurry images. compose yourself : composing your shot some people intuitively understand composition — the arrangement of visual elements in an image. they just naturally have an eye for it. other people … well, don ’ t. if you fall into the latter category, don ’ t freak out. anyone can learn the basics of composition — including you! applying basic composition principles as you photograph your pieces, keep these basic compositional points in mind to make your images truly stand apart : angle ( or tilt ) the camera. this puts the subject slightly off center and creates movement and flow, resulting in a more dynamic, intriguing image. ( see figure 10 - 7. ) shoot tight. filling the frame with your subject ( see figure 10 - 8 ) not only adds visual impact but also enables potential buyers to discern the details and quality of your piece. ( be sure to clean the piece first. if you don ’ t, any schmutz on it will be visible, too. ) photo courtesy of colette urquhart figure 10 - 7 : angling the camera produces interesting results. photo courtesy of ed and kate coleman ( https : / / www. etsy. com / shop / edandkatestore ) figure 10 - 8 : shoot tight for added impact. blur the background. by choosing a shallow depth of field ( read : a bigger aperture or lower f - stop setting ), you can blur the image ’ s background to dramatically highlight your piece. ( see figure 10 - 9. ) when the background is blurred, you can shoot in almost any setting. just make sure the background colors don ’ t clash with your subject. photo courtesy of nataliia usacheva ( https : / / www. etsy. com / shop / cozyyarnstudio ) figure 10 - 9 : blur the background to emphasize your item. less is more. don ’ t crowd the image with extraneous objects. otherwise, potential buyers may not understand exactly which item in your photo is for sale. frame your subject. one way to highlight your piece is to frame it — that is, place some darker element in the perimeter. this technique helps prevent the viewer ’ s eye from straying from your item. group pieces. especially if you make itsy - bitsy goodies, try grouping a few together. ( note : three to five pieces does the trick. ) this is a good way to catch a buyer ’ s eye as well as to show them how the pieces in your collection work together. just be sure to note in your listing description which one of the items in the group is actually up for grabs. following the rule of thirds to be perfectly honest, we ’ re not big on rules. but one rule we can absolutely get behind is the rule of thirds. this rule says you should use two horizontal lines and two vertical lines to divide the scene you ’ re photographing into nine equal parts. then, you compose your shot so that key elements land either a ) along any of the horizontal or vertical lines or b ) at any of the four points where the vertical and horizontal lines intersect. for example, in figure 10 - 10, the placement of the jar aligns roughly with the rightmost vertical line, and the bee design appears where the rightmost line and the bottom horizontal line meet ( ish ). we don ’ t know why, but this conveys a sense of tension and energy and helps pique the viewer ’ s interest. some digital cameras, and even some smartphones, let you display a grid on the screen so that you can organize your image around the lines and cross points. photo courtesy of ann crews ( https : / / www. etsy. com / shop / paperandclay ) figure 10 - 10 : use the grid to compose your image. focus, people! focusing your image it ’ s imperative that your product photos be crisp and clear. after all, a potential buyer can ’ t view your piece in all its detailed splendor if your photos are as hazy as a bootlegger ’ s alibi! if you ’ re using a fancy dslr camera, or even a point - and - shoot variety, we recommend using its auto - focus feature. using this feature usually involves pressing the shutter button halfway down until the camera lands on its focal point, and then pressing the button the rest of the way to snap your photo. most smartphone cameras have an auto - focus feature, too. to engage it, frame your photo in the camera screen, touch and hold on the screen where you want the camera to focus until you see a message that says “ ae / af lock ” ( or something similar ), and then take your picture the same way you always do. when shooting up close, use your camera ’ s macro or close - up setting to focus in on your item. this setting works better than simply zooming in. if you ’ re using the camera on your smartphone, you may not have access to a macro setting. in that case, look into buying an attachable macro phone lens. snap decision : snapping lots of pictures back when film — not to mention the cost of developing it — put you back a pretty penny, you may have been justified in being stingy with your shots. but these days, it ’ s all digital, dawg! you can — and should — shoot lots of shots. and by lots, we mean lots. like, a whole bunch. a gazillion should do the trick. while you ’ re at it, make it a point to experiment. swap out props and backgrounds. try different angles, lighting, and depths of field. it ’ s the only way to ensure that you wind up with a winning picture. if you end up with more photos than you need, you can always post them to your instagram feed to entice your followers to visit your shop. if you ’ re using a slower shutter speed because there ’ s not much light, or if you just downed a quadruple espresso, you need to take special care to keep your camera still as you photograph your piece. using a tripod is one way to go ; alternatively, you can rest your camera on a table or a stack of books. motion picture : capturing video of your item in addition to photographs, your etsy listings can, and should, contain short videos of your items. according to etsy ’ s own research, including product videos in item listings “ boosts buyer confidence and conveys valuable information that they can ’ t get from photos alone. ” videos are also great for shoppers who can ’ t be bothered to read your detailed listing description. most modern smartphones, and lots of dslr and point - and - shoot digital cameras, support high - quality video capture. if your smartphone has two cameras — one in the front and one in the back — you ’ ll want to use the camera in the back because it ’ s the better of the two. so what kind of video are we talking about here? well, you have a few choices. you can include a video that answers common questions about your item or highlights its unique details or craftsmanship. or you may want to upload a video that reveals how your item was made or with what ingredients, or one that shows your item being worn or used. capturing video involves the same basic considerations as capturing photographs — the use of backdrops, props, and live models, as well as lighting, composition, and focus. you can also use special software to add text to your videos and to create videos consisting of multiple shots spliced together. ( we talk about video - editing software in the next section. ) listing videos must be no shorter than 5 seconds and no longer than 15 seconds. ( read : they ’ re not citizen kane. ) so keep your video simple, and don ’ t overthink it. clean - up on image five : editing images and videos even the best photo can use a little tidying up. maybe you need to adjust its brightness or contrast, or tweak the color so it ’ s more realistic, or crop the image so your subject stands out. don ’ t use image - editing tools to try to “ fix ” a bad photo. some photos — particularly ones that are way too dark or wildly out of focus — are simply beyond repair. image - editing tools are for enhancement purposes only. you can edit your videos, too — although editing usually has less to do with “ tidying them up ” or “ adjusting ” them and more to do with changing their duration ( by shortening them or by splicing multiple clips together to create one longer video ) or adding text. if you capture your photos and videos using your smartphone, we recommend editing them on that same mobile device using its built - in image - and video - editing tools. or you can download more robust editing apps — often for free. we like snapseed, available for both iphone and android users. if, on the other hand, you use a dedicated camera to photograph and video your items for your shop, you may prefer to use image - and video - editing tools on your desktop or laptop computer. loads of these tools are available, ranging in complexity from very simple to very complicated, and in price from free to extremely not free. obviously, we can ’ t cover the ins and outs of using all these editing tools. but to give you a basic idea of how they work, in this section we step you through the process of using a free online photo - editing tool called pixlr e on your desktop or laptop computer to enhance your photos. we touch on using another free online tool, called adobe express, to edit your videos. before you can edit your photos or videos on your desktop or laptop computer, you must transfer them from your camera to your computer ’ s hard drive. this transfer usually involves inserting your camera ’ s memory card into a port on your computer or into an external port that you connect to your computer via usb, and then moving your photo and video files from the memory card to a folder in your computer. starting with pixlr e after you transfer your images to your desktop or laptop computer, you ’ re ready to use pixlr e to clean them up. to begin, direct your web browser to and click the open image button. pixlr e www. pixlr. com / e / launches a standard file - selection dialog box. navigate to the folder where you moved your pictures, locate and select the photo you want, and click open to open the photo in pixlr e ( see figure 10 - 11 ). source : pixlr. com / e / figure 10 - 11 : open your photo in pixlr e. editing photos with pixlr e the fastest and easiest way to edit a photo with pixlr e is to apply the auto adjust tool, which automatically adjusts the image ’ s exposure, color, and clarity settings. you can also use the auto pop tool to quickly adjust the image ’ s colors. both these tools are available from the adjustment menu, located along the top of the screen. ( see figure 10 - 12. ) note : this menu also provides access to manual tools for finer control over these and other adjustments, like brightness and contrast, temperature and tint, hue and saturation, vibrance, highlights and shadows, exposure, and more. if you don ’ t like the results of an edit, open the edit menu and choose undo or press ctrl + z on your computer ’ s keyboard. source : pixlr. com / e / figure 10 - 12 : the adjustment menu. pixlr e also offers filters, which you access from the filters menu ( next to the adjustment menu ). a filter is a little bit like the auto adjust tool in that it applies a specific group of settings to your image simultaneously to achieve a certain effect. the difference is that with filters, you can adjust the intensity of the effect. some pixlr e filters correct certain aspects of your image. for example, you can apply the sharpen filter or the clarity filter ( both accessible from the details submenu in the filters menu ) to your image if it ’ s not perfectly in focus. other filters, like the ones you access from the effect library ( which you display by opening the filters menu and choosing effect library ), are designed to convey a certain mood. ( see figure 10 - 13. ) don ’ t overdo it with filters — especially the ones designed to convey a mood. you may alter your photos so much that they no longer accurately represent your item. if your image contains extraneous items ( like the aforementioned pile of newspapers or some rando in the frame ), or you simply want to focus it more tightly on your piece, you can crop it. to crop an image, click the crop button in the toolbar on the left ( third down on the left ) or press the c key on your computer ’ s keyboard. next, click an edge or corner of the crop box that appears around your image and drag it inward to indicate where the image should be cropped. then click the apply button in the upper - right corner of the screen to crop the image. source : pixlr. com / e / figure 10 - 13 : the effect library. the pixlr e toolbar provides access to other useful tools, too. there ’ s the heal tool ( its toolbar button has a bandage on it ), which erases spots and blemishes from an image. the focus / bokeh tool ( its button features a circle with dots inside ) lets you blur the background of your photo but keep the subject in focus. and the dodge / burn tool ( its button has a circle with one light side and one dark side ) allows you to lighten or darken certain areas of your image. you can also use the text tool ( look for the button with a t on it ) to add text to your image. our advice : experiment with these and other tools to figure out how they work and what you like! saving your changes in pixlr e to ensure that all your hard work doesn ’ t go to waste, you must save your edited photo. to do so, open the file menu and choose save. then, in the save dialog box, choose a file type ( jpg is fine ), set the image quality ( choose something on the higher side ), and specify the image ’ s width and height. ( etsy recommends that product images be at least 1, 000 pixels wide so that shoppers can zoom in on them. ) then click the save as button, locate and select the folder where you want to save the image file, type a name for it, and click save. dedicate a folder on your computer to your etsy shop photos and assign your photos descriptive names to make them easier to find when you ’ re ready to create your item listing. editing videos using adobe express adobe express is a free online video - editing tool you can use to fancify your listing videos. with adobe express, you can crop the duration of your video, splice multiple clips together, overlay text, add music, and more. ( note : you need an account to use adobe express, but signing up is easy. ) to edit your video, direct your web browser to. then click the plus sign ( + ) button in https : / / express. adobe. com / sp the upper - left corner of the screen and choose video under create new. next, choose a story template or click start from scratch. ( we opted to start from scratch. ) you see a screen like the one shown in figure 10 - 14. this is where the magic happens! source : adobe express figure 10 - 14 : edit your video here. to upload the video you want to edit, click the video option and locate and select the video from the standard file - selection dialog box that appears. when the upload is complete, you see a thumbnail version of the video along the bottom of your screen. to add another clip, click the plus sign ( + ) next to the thumbnail version of the first clip ; then click the video option to locate and select an additional clip. ( repeat as needed. ) when you ’ ve uploaded all the clips you need, you can drag and drop their thumbnail versions along the bottom of the screen into whatever order you want. if you ’ ve added a clip in error, click its thumbnail version, click the button with three dots that appears, and choose delete. notice the panel on the right side. it contains different settings depending on which link is selected along the top of the panel. when the layout link is selected, the panel displays a series of caption designs. to add a caption to your video ( like your shop name or the name of the product featured in the video ), choose the design you want. then, in the field that appears in the large box in the middle of the screen, click the text option and type your caption in the field. clicking the theme link displays the theme panel. you can choose from the settings in this panel to apply a theme to your video. the theme controls the font and color used for any captions you add. it also dictates the type and color of any transitions you insert. and clicking the resize link opens the resize panel, where you can change the video ’ s aspect ratio from widescreen to square or vice versa. note : there ’ s also a music panel, where you could add music to your listing video — if listing videos supported audio. ( they don ’ t. ) you can preview your video whenever you want. to do so, just click the preview button. if you ’ re happy with how it turned out, click the download button. adobe express prepares your video for download ; when it ’ s finished, click download again. then navigate to your computer ’ s downloads folder to access the video. chapter 11 use your words : composing engaging titles and descriptions in this chapter driving traffic to your listing with search engine optimization composing strong listing titles making your listing descriptions stand out proofreading your listing true, a gorgeous photo of your piece may catch a buyer ’ s eye. but the way you write about your piece in your listing title and description can keep your buyer ’ s attention. your listing title is just what you ’ d expect : a short line of catchy text that briefly describes your item. shoppers see it ( along with your first item listing photo ) when your item appears in their search results or on a category page. your listing description is longer. it ’ s where you provide additional details about the item, and it ’ s displayed on the item listing page. with these textual elements, you have an opportunity to engage buyers with a story about you and your piece. you can also answer questions about your piece, such as what it ’ s made of, what it does, and why someone should buy it. indeed, well - written and interesting titles and descriptions may just persuade a buyer to add your piece to their cart. if your talents lie more in crafting and less in writing, don ’ t freak out. as you discover in this chapter, writing engaging listing titles and descriptions is plenty doable. first, though, you explore the nuts and bolts of optimizing your listing titles, descriptions, tags, categories, and attributes to make it easier for prospective buyers to find your piece. ( you find out how to apply all this knowledge to an actual listing in etsy in chapter 12. ) seo speedwagon : using search engine optimization to drive traffic last we checked, there were eleventy - gazillion ( ish ) items for sale on etsy. that ’ s amazing — if you ’ re looking to buy. but if you ’ re looking to sell, all those listings pose a problem in that they make it super difficult for buyers to find your items. fortunately, this abundance has a solution : search engine optimization ( seo ). seo involves planting relevant keywords in the title and description for each item you list, as well as in your shop title and description. ( a keyword is a word or phrase that someone enters into a search engine, like google. ) that way, when people search for those keywords either on etsy or on a search engine outside etsy, it increases your chances of being found. you can also apply keywords and phrases to your listing in the form of tags. choosing keywords suppose you ’ ve hand - sewn a cross - body purse with an embroidered strap out of an old pair of jeans, and you want to sell it in your etsy shop. what keywords should you use to draw in potential buyers? one obvious keyword is purse — and you should definitely use it. the problem is, everyone else who sells purses on etsy will use the same keyword. indeed, a recent etsy search for the term purse yielded almost 4 million hits. here ’ s another problem : when most people search on etsy ( or anywhere else ), they don ’ t click past the first few pages of results to find what they ’ re looking for. so if your purse listing is buried in the bottom 3, 999, 900 matches ( and there ’ s a good chance it will be ), it ’ s unlikely that anyone will ever see it. steering traffic to your etsy listings and storefront means ensuring that they appear in the first few pages of a potential buyer ’ s search results — preferably on page 1. the eleventy - billion - dollar question is, how? well, here ’ s our answer : incorporate keywords and phrases in your listing title and description. to continue with the denim purse example, these would include high - level keywords and phrases like purse and bag, as well as more specific keywords and phrases, such as cross - body, jeans, denim, hand - sewn, vintage, jeans, and embroidery. and because the item is made from vintage denim, you may also want to include keywords like recycled, upcycled, and eco - conscious. the idea is to be as granular as possible to ensure that anyone looking for an item like yours can find you, and fast. etsy offers some handy tools to help you identify what keywords will drive traffic to your shop. one is shop stats. this tool lists the keywords people use most often to find your shop. if you ’ re not currently using any of the top keywords in your shop title and shop sections, you can add them. or you can look up synonyms for those keywords and add them, too. ( for more about shop stats, see chapter 16. ) another way to identify effective keywords is to use etsy ’ s search feature. just start typing words or phrases that describe what you sell into the search field and see what pops up in the list of potential matches that appears. these matches reflect popular search terms, which you can incorporate into your seo strategy. finally, you can employ third - party tools for help with seo. one is erank ( ). this online service includes a keyword tool www. erank. com that generates killer ideas for listing keywords and tags. another is marmalead ( ), which offers similar functionality. www. marmalead. com in addition to including keywords and phrases in your listing titles and descriptions, consider incorporating them into your shop description, too. applying tags a tag is a word or short phrase, called metadata, that is attached to a listing. tags work in tandem with keywords to help shoppers locate your item. think of tags as being the salt to a keyword ’ s pepper, the ernie to its bert, the captain to its tennille. you can — and should — apply as many as 13 tags to your etsy listing. each tag can be a single keyword, or it can be a short phrase. etsy recommends applying at least some tags with phrases, for a couple reasons. first, if a potential buyer types any of the words in the phrase, your listing will be included in their results. second, if they enter all the words in the phrase — think black goth handbag or plaid quilted purse — your listing will leapfrog to the top. ( these types of phrases are called long - tail keywords. ) note : tags can ’ t contain more than 20 characters, so a phrase like supercalifragilisticexpialidocious t - shirt is a no - go. as you decide which tags to use, keep these points in mind : start with the most obvious terms first. sticking with a purse example, you can apply tags such as cross - body purse and handbag. add tags for regionalisms. people often use different words and phrases based on where they live. for example, what you refer to as a purse may be called a pocketbook by people who live somewhere else. apply tags that indicate the style of the item. think formal clutch, casual bag, hobo, hippie, frilly, and so on. select tags to convey the item ’ s physical qualities. you can add a tag to convey the bag ’ s general size ( for example, large ) or texture ( such as quilted, shiny, matte, or what have you ). or you may want to mention any of the purse ’ s interior features, like phone compartment or inside pocket. add tags to indicate any motifs used on the item. think betty boop, owls, or race car. choose tags that indicate whom the item is for. maybe you designed your bag with men in mind. maybe you designed it for babies. either way, indicate it with a tag. don ’ t repeat categories or keywords. you want each tag to be unique to increase your odds of matching a shopper ’ s search. etsy also leaves room for you to apply material - specific tags. these don ’ t count toward the 13 tags. examples of these types of tags may include twill, satin, wool, leather, and so on. if your piece is for a mature audience, you must tag it with the word mature. when you create a listing, etsy also enables you to apply a category, which acts like a tag. as discussed in chapter 3, etsy has defined several broad categories, like jewelry & accessories, clothing & shoes, home & living, wedding & party, toys & entertainment, art & collectibles, and craft supplies. but within each broad category are several more precise subcategories. so using the handbag example, your category, which should be as precise as possible, may be jewelry & accessories > bags & purses > handbags > cross - body bags. depending on what category you choose, you may also have the opportunity to select various attributes that describe your item, such as the its primary color, its secondary color, whether it ’ s suitable for a particular holiday, its size, its volume, and more. to see a list of every category and subcategory on etsy, click the sitemap link in the shop section of the footer area at the bottom of any etsy marketplace page. headline muse : penning persuasive listing titles your listing title is super important. like a good headline, it broadcasts key information about your piece — what it is, what it ’ s made of, and perhaps a few choice details, like its color, size, who it ’ s for, or where one might put it — to grab the attention of potential buyers and to pique their interest. listing titles also factor into etsy ’ s search system. when composing a listing title, keep these points in mind : include keywords, but not too many. every listing title you write should contain at least one keyword or phrase ( more, if possible ). but stuffing your title with too many keywords can make it harder to read. put keywords first. place keywords at or near the beginning of your listing title so that buyers will see them, even if they ’ re using a mobile device. clearly describe your item. otherwise, potential buyers may scroll right past your listing entry. keep it short. listing titles must be brief — no more than 140 characters ( including spaces ). use a mix of uppercase and lowercase letters. too many all - uppercase words and it seems like you ’ re shouting. too many lowercase words and it seems like you ’ re e. e. cummings. here ’ s a good example of an effective listing title : cross - body purse : hand - sewn from vintage denim with embroidered strap story time : telling a story with your listing description people who buy on etsy aren ’ t interested in meaningless, mass - produced goods. they want pieces with a past — something that has a story. fortunately, etsy allows sellers to enter a listing description so that they can tell the tale behind their product. in the following sections, we explain how to uncover an item ’ s story, answer questions about the item, and compose a thoughtful description. uncovering your item ’ s story not sure what your piece ’ s story is — or whether it even has one? fear not. start spinning your yarn ( figuratively speaking ) by answering a few questions : what inspired you to create the piece? mentioning your source of inspiration is a great way to get the ball rolling. how was the piece made? indicating the skills involved in making an item can be an excellent way to forge a connection with buyers. was it woven? welded? assembled by magical hamsters? however it was made, consider including that information in your listing description. who taught you the skills you use to create your piece? maybe your great - grandmother learned the fine art of embroidery and passed her skills down to you. or maybe you learned how to weave baskets during a semester abroad in peru. sharing how you learned the techniques you use to craft your pieces can be a great way to bond with prospective buyers. even if you choose not to focus on the story behind your item, don ’ t hesitate to let your own personality, and the “ personality ” of your brand, shine through in your listing description. if you and your brand tend toward quirky, your listing descriptions should, too. ditto if you and your brand have a more formal bent. describing your item it probably goes without saying that your listing description should describe your item. but, in the interest of being thorough, we ’ re saying it. think about what questions buyers are likely to have about your piece. then answer all those questions in your listing description. the description may cover the following points : what is your piece? although it may seem obvious to you that your item is a handbag made of an old pair of jeans, this fact may be less apparent to others. what does your piece do? does your piece have a function? or is it for decoration only? be sure to note this info in your listing description. who is your piece for? is it for mothers? is it for boyfriends? on the flip side, who is it not for? for example, if it is a toy for older children that contains pieces on which an infant might choke, you should definitely note that in your listing description. how does your piece work? does it have a clasp? buttons? a zipper? do you tie it? does it need batteries, or do you power it by driving a delorean equipped with a lightning rod past the town clock tower during a thunderstorm? what color is your piece? colors may translate differently on different computer monitors. including detailed color information in your listing description is a good way to bridge that gap. be specific here. don ’ t say that your piece is red when it ’ s actually scarlet, brick, ruby, cherry, crimson, or burgundy. how big is your piece? avoid vague terms like small or large - ish. instead, opt for precise measurements, in both metric and imperial units ( as in, inches and feet ). it ’ s also a good idea to provide contextual measurements to help people visualize the item ’ s size. for example, you can say “ this purse is the perfect size for carrying a paperback book. ” what materials did you use? organic cotton? hand - dyed wool? fancy crystals? bottlecaps? whatever materials you use, they need to appear in your listing description. ( as mentioned in the previous section, you can also add materials as tags during the listing process. for more on adding tags when you create an item listing, see chapter 12. ) what techniques did you use? did you crochet it? cross - stitch it? whittle it out of driftwood? this info helps tell the story of your piece and reinforces to buyers that you made it by hand. it also helps attract buyers who are partial to a particular crafting technique. if you made your piece using high - end materials or a particularly difficult crafting technique, be sure to price your item accordingly. ( flip to chapter 9 for more information on pricing your items. ) what does your piece feel like? is it soft? smooth? slick? rough? nubby? scaly? prickly? stubbly? indicate your item ’ s tactile qualities in your listing description. what does your piece smell like? does it have a scent, such as lavender or ylang - ylang? if it ’ s a vintage piece, does it have a musty odor? does it come from a smoker ’ s home? composing your listing description you ’ ve chosen your keywords, you have a handle on the story behind your item, and you know what information your listing needs to contain. now it ’ s time to put the proverbial pen to paper and write your listing description. to make your listing description as effective as possible, put the most important information, including keywords, about your item first. that way, it ’ s easier for shoppers to quickly find the information they need about your piece, and your listing is better optimized for searches. it ’ s also more mobile - friendly, allowing shoppers with smaller screens to access the info they need right away. of course, what constitutes “ the most important information ” may differ from piece to piece. in general, however, this info likely includes what your item is, its size, what it does, what it looks like, and what it ’ s made of. from there, you can get into more “ nice to know ” information, such as what your item smells like ( unless, of course, the whole point of your item is its smell, as is the case with soap, perfume, and the like ) and the story behind your item or your work. to keep your prospective buyer reading, use short paragraphs and bullet points. that construction is easier on the eyes than a gigantic block of text. another way to break things up is to use subtitles — for example, one above the listing description, one on top of any measurement information, and so on. you can set these subtitles apart from regular text by using all caps or boldfaced font. consider this example of a listing description that falls short : purse made of old jeans size : large we don ’ t know about you, but nothing in this description makes us want to buy this purse. it ’ s almost completely devoid of useful information! worse, it ’ s as though the seller just can ’ t be bothered to tell anyone about their item. following is an example of a much more effective listing description : original hand - sewn cross - body purse made from upcycled [ brand name ] vintage jeans with embroidered daisies on the strap. this durable, stylish, casual, and eco - friendly bag features a handy interior compartment to house your phone or wallet, and a sturdy silver zipper along the top to secure everything inside. the denim fabric is a light - blue color and is worn to perfection. the purse measures 12 inches ( roughly 30 centimeters ) across and 9 inches ( roughly 23 centimeters ) high, and it ’ s just the right size for a paperback book or tablet, with room to spare for other essentials. i crafted this purse in my home studio, including the embroidered daisies, which i stitched by hand. it ’ s perfect for anyone who needs a sturdy, roomy, and fashionable bag with a vintage flair! now, this description makes us want to buy this handbag, pronto. if your product merits a disclaimer, include it in the listing description. for example, if it ’ s a vintage item, you may want to include a disclaimer indicating that it ’ s old and used. if it ’ s copper jewelry, you can mention in a disclaimer that the piece may turn people ’ s skin green. or if it ’ s a hand - crafted toy that ’ s suitable only for children above a certain age, you can include a disclaimer to that effect. proofread, please! proofreading your listing years ago, a neighborhood garden store posted a lovely yellow sign. it had been painted with care, its green letters tidy and even. the problem? those green letters spelled out the following word : shurbs. presumably, the nursery, known for its fine selection of plants, had intended to advertise its lovely collection of shrubs. instead, it broadcasted its carelessness and lack of attention to detail. as an etsy shop owner, it ’ s imperative that you ( or someone you trust ) proofread everything you post in your shop — listing titles and descriptions included. failing to do so may well lead potential buyers to conclude that you ’ re sloppy, that you don ’ t take pride in your work, or that you ’ re incompetent. and that will likely prompt them to shop elsewhere! use a word - processing program ( like microsoft word ) to compose your listing titles and descriptions instead of typing them directly into etsy. that way, you can take advantage of word - processing tools like spell check. you can then copy and paste the listing title and description from your word - processing document to your etsy listing. as a bonus, this approach makes it easier to reuse listing descriptions either in part or in full for new items down the road. in addition to proofreading for spelling and grammatical errors, peruse your posts for other problems, such as redundant information. big, pretentious words are another no - no. for best results, stick with the common vernacular. finally, keep in mind that not everyone on etsy speaks english as a first language. don ’ t include words or phrases in your listings that are likely to cause problems for these shoppers. chapter 12 for your listing pleasure : adding and managing item listings in this chapter listing, relisting, and removing an item modifying, sharing, and duplicating listings tidying up your etsy shop featuring a listing in your etsy shop fish gotta swim. birds gotta fly. camels gotta spit. and etsy sellers … well, etsy sellers gotta sell. the first step to selling on etsy — after setting up your etsy store ( and crafting or curating the piece you want to sell ) — is to create an item listing. an item listing is a page in your etsy shop with information about an item you have for sale. this item listing features an item title and description, a list of materials you used to create your piece, a category and tags to help buyers find your item, images of your piece ( you can include as many as ten ), a video of your piece ( optional ), pricing information, shipping details, and more. this chapter steps you through the process of creating your very first item listing so that you can get your shop up and running. it also tells you how to copy, renew, share, and deactivate listings, as well as rearrange and feature listings in your etsy shop. new attitude : listing a new item listing a piece in your etsy shop is surprisingly painless — provided that you ’ ve done all the necessary legwork first. that is, you ’ ve composed your item title and description, captured a few gorgeous pictures and maybe a video of your piece, set its price, and so on. etsy walks you through the whole process, which we cover in the following sections. starting the listing process after you log in to your etsy account, follow these steps to begin the listing process : 1. click the shop manager button along the top of any etsy marketplace page. the shop manager page opens. 2. on the left side of the shop manager page, click the listings link. the listings page opens ( see figure 12 - 1 ). source : etsy. com figure 12 - 1 : the listings page. 3. click the add a listing button in the upper - right corner of the page. the add a new listing page opens ( see figure 12 - 2 ). source : etsy. com figure 12 - 2 : use this page to create a listing. uploading images of your item next up is adding photos to your listing. ( for help capturing appealing photos of your item, see chapter 10. ) here ’ s the drill : 1. in the photos section, click the add a photo button ( refer to figure 12 - 5 ). a standard file - selection dialog box opens. 2. locate and select the first image you want to upload ; then click the open button ( pc ) or choose button ( mac ). 3. repeat steps 1 and 2 to add more images to your listing. your listing can feature as many as ten photos — and that ’ s how many you should add! 4. to change the order in which your photos appear in your listing, click a photo you want to move and drag it left ( to move it up in the order ) or right ( to move it down ). the first image in the list will be the thumbnail image that appears in search results and as the main featured image in the item listing, so make it a good one! to ensure that none of the important parts of the image get cut off, adjust the thumbnail view. to do so, click the adjust thumbnail button and zoom in on the image or drag it until the focal point is centered just right. adding a video of your item if you ’ ve recorded an enticing video of your item ( see chapter 10 for more info ), you ’ re ready to upload it now. follow these steps : 1. in the video section, click the add a video button ( refer figure 12 - 5 ). a standard file - selection dialog box opens. 2. locate and select the video you want to upload and click the open button. 3. to change the aspect ratio, or dimensions, of the video, click the crop button, choose the aspect ratio you want to use, and click apply. describing your item the listing details section of the add a new listing page is where you convey all the important details about your item. figure 12 - 3 shows the top part of this page. follow these steps to describe your item : 1. in the title field, type a title for your listing. ( see chapter 11 for help writing a solid listing title. ) 2. next to about this listing, click the who made it? drop - down list and select the option that best reflects who made the item. 3. click the what is it? drop - down list and indicate whether the item is a finished product or a supply or tool to make things. source : etsy. com figure 12 - 3 : the top part of the listing details section of the add a new listing page. 4. click the when was it made? drop - down list and choose the option that best describes when the item was made. 5. in the category box, type words that describe your object to obtain category suggestions. when you see a suggestion you like, click it to add it to the category box. after you select the item ’ s categories and subcategories, etsy displays a series of settings called attributes. attributes work with tags to help make it easier for buyers to find your item. examples of attributes may include medium, primary color, secondary color, occasion, width, height, depth, style, room, and more. exactly which attributes appear depends on which category you selected in step 5. 6. select attributes that describe your item. if your item is in the paintings, photography, and prints category, it ’ s especially important to include the width, height, and depth attributes. doing so enables buyers on etsy ’ s mobile app to use the app ’ s augmented reality features to preview how your product will look in their space. you also want to make sure your listing ’ s first photo clearly shows the item all by itself, and that it ’ s upright ( not at an angle ) and facing straight forward. 7. next to renewal options ( refer to figure 12 - 3 ), click automatic ( to have etsy renew the listing automatically if it expires — the default ) or manual ( to renew the expired listing yourself ). 8. next to type ( refer to figure 12 - 3 ), choose physical ( if the item is a physical object ) or digital ( if the item is a digital file — for example, a pdf file containing a knitting pattern ). 9. in the description field, enter a description of your item. ( see chapter 11 for details on writing a compelling description. ) to see how your description will look in google search results, click the show preview link below the description field. 10. indicate or add a production partner. if you ’ ve employed a production partner to create this item, you need to note this in your listing. ( see figure 12 - 4. ) if you ’ ve already added your production partner to your etsy shop, select them in the production partners section of the listing details page. otherwise, click the add a new production partner button, enter the requested information about your partner in the dialog box that appears, and click add partner. 11. if your shop sells different types of items, you can create a section for each type. to create a section, click the add your first section link. ( refer to figure 12 - 4. ) a new section dialog box opens. source : etsy. com figure 12 - 4 : add a production partner, create or choose a shop section, and identify tags and materials. 12. type a name for the new section and click save. a drop - down list appears with the section you created or preselected. to create more sections, click the section drop - down list and choose add a section. then repeat step 12. 13. type a tag for your item in the tags field and click the add button. ( refer to figure 12 - 4. ) repeat this step until you ’ ve added all appropriate tags. or type all your tags at one time, separating them with a comma. you can apply 13 tags to your listing. to maximize the chances of buyers finding your item, you want to use as many tags as you ’ re allowed. tags may describe what type of item you ’ re selling ( say, tiara or vintage tire iron ), who the item is for ( say, babies or dogs ), or a style ( maybe goth or kitsch or tribal ). if you run out of ideas for tags, use etsy ’ s search field for help. also, it ’ s okay to use phrases. ( chapter 11 has the full scoop on tagging. ) if your item can be personalized, it ’ s a good idea to add tags like “ personalized, ” “ custom, ” and “ made to order. ” that way, buyers who use those terms in their search phrases are more likely to find your item. for more on personalizing items, see the section “ offering personalized items, ” later in this chapter. 14. to indicate the materials used in your piece, type a material in the materials field and click the add button. ( refer to figure 12 - 4. ) repeat this step until you ’ ve added all appropriate materials. or type all your materials at one time, separating them with a comma. you can apply 13 materials to your listing. enter as many materials as you can. adding the price, quantity, and sku next, you add the item ’ s price, quantity, and sku ( stock - keeping unit ; optional ). ( see figure 12 - 5. ) here ’ s how : 1. enter the item ’ s price in the price field. ( for help pricing your items, see chapter 9. ) 2. if you have more than one of these items available, type the quantity in — you guessed it — the quantity field. if you enter a number higher than 1, etsy will create one listing but will automatically generate a new listing as soon as the first listing results in a sale. etsy will continue generating new listings until you sell all your items. 3. some sellers use skus to keep track of their inventory. if you ’ re one of these sellers, you can type the item ’ s sku in the sku field. buyers won ’ t be able to see the sku. it ’ s for your use only. source : etsy. com figure 12 - 5 : enter the price, quantity, and sku. adding variations if your item comes in different sizes, materials, colors, finishes, or what have you, you can indicate these variations. first, though, you must define the variations. ( you can choose two per item. ) then you can apply them. here ’ s how : 1. click the add variations button. ( refer to figure 12 - 5. ) the add variations dialog box opens. 2. click the add a variation drop - down list and choose the variation type. if the variation type is not listed, choose create a new variation, type a name for the variation, and click add. options for the variation type appear. 3. open the add [ variation ] options drop - down list and choose a name for the first variation option. for example, if you selected primary color as your variation, choose a color from the drop - down list as the variation name. repeat this step for each variation option. ( see figure 12 - 6. ) source : etsy. com figure 12 - 6 : setting variations. 4. specify whether the price, quantity, or sku will be different for each variation option. 5. click update. the variation options appear in the variations section. 6. to link one of the photos you added earlier to a variation option, click the link photos button. 7. in the link photos dialog box, click the drop - down list for the first variation and choose the photo you want to use from the list of thumbnail images that appears. repeat this step for each of the other variations. ( see figure 12 - 7. ) when you ’ re finished, click save. source : etsy. com figure 12 - 7 : link a photo to each variation. 8. use the toggle buttons to the right of each variation to indicate whether that variation should appear in the new listing. ( see figure 12 - 8. ) source : etsy. com figure 12 - 8 : toggle variations on or off. offering personalized items if the item you ’ re listing can be personalized in some way, click the toggle button in the personalization section of the add a new listing page. as shown in figure 12 - 9, the section expands to display an instructions for buyers text box, where you enter the text you want your buyers to see about personalizing your item, and a what the buyer will see box, which shows how your instructions will look to the person on the receiving end. if your item must be personalized, leave the personalization is optional check box, shown in figure 12 - 9, deselected. if it ’ s optional, select the box. setting shipping options you can ’ t list your item until you lay out how you plan to ship it after it sells — something you do in the shipping section of the add a new listing page. ( see figure 12 - 10. ) accepting custom orders custom orders are a bit different from items that can be personalized. typically, a custom order is a one - off piece that you create on commission. if you ’ re open to receiving custom orders, you can add a request custom order button on your shop ’ s main page. shoppers can then click the button to message you about creating a custom order just for them. to add the button, click the settings link on the left side of the shop manager and choose options. then, under custom order requests, click the enabled button. finally, click save to add the button to your shop ’ s page. if you decide to accept custom orders, here are a few tips : charge a little more for custom items. after all, they tend to involve more work. obtain payment upfront. otherwise, you may find yourself with a personalized item you can ’ t sell or use. you can do this by creating a custom listing just for your buyer and sending them a direct link to it. communicate with your buyer. tell them how your order process works and what they need to do to keep things moving. ( you can also post this on your shop ’ s faq section. ) give the buyer a time frame. custom items take time, so prepare your buyer accordingly. send the buyer a photo of the item before you ship it. that way, they know they ’ re getting what they asked for. source : etsy. com figure 12 - 9 : apply these settings if your item can be personalized. source : etsy. com figure 12 - 10 : shipping options. in particular, you need to provide the following information : shipping prices : use this drop - down list to indicate whether you plan to avail yourself of etsy ’ s calculated shipping feature ( the default ) or you intend to enter your shipping price manually. etsy ’ s calculated shipping feature takes the guesswork out of shipping charges by calculating them for you. it would be literally impossible for us to overstate how great this feature is. it ’ s like foot - rub, cozy - sweater, warm - chocolate - chip - cookie amazing. in other words, we suggest you use it, and we assume here that you ’ ve elected to do so. you can use calculated shipping only if you plan to ship via the united states postal service ( usps ). if you intend to use a different carrier, you ’ ll have to calculate the shipping price on your own and enter it manually. ( we talk more about shipping carriers in chapter 13. ) origin zip code : the shipping section of the add a new listing page prompts you to enter your zip code ( or, more specifically, the zip code from which packages from your shop will ship ). processing time : use this drop - down list to indicate how long it will take you to process the order. note that by “ process, ” we mean “ make ” ( if your items are made to order ) and “ pack ” ( as in getting them ready to hand to your carrier ). options range from 1 business day to 5 – 7 business days. you can also set a custom processing time. nobody wants to wait forever for their item. some people may even shy away from a sale if the processing time is too long. so opt for a shorter processing time if you can. oh, and by the way, delivery dates are shown in search results, so buyers can feel more confident about when they ’ ll receive an item. where you ’ ll ship : the default setting is united states and worldwide. to change this setting, click the edit link. then use the check boxes that appear to indicate which continents and countries you ’ ll ship to. which shipping services you ’ ll use : when you elect to use calculated shipping, six usps shipping options — usps priority mail, usps priority mail express, usps first - class mail, usps priority mail international, usps priority mail express international, and standard international — are selected by default. to change this setting, click the edit link and deselect any options you don ’ t want to offer. for even more choices, click the advanced shipping services link to reveal usps media mail and usps parcel select ground options. whether you offer free domestic or international shipping : use these check boxes to offer free shipping on the item regardless of how much it costs. if you set up your shop to offer etsy ’ s free shipping guarantee, that guarantee applies only to orders over $ 35. these check boxes allow you to apply free shipping to smaller orders, too. for more on etsy ’ s free shipping guarantee, and setting up your shop to offer it, see chapter 9. handling fees : as we said in chapter 9, we ( and etsy ) think it ’ s best to fold handling fees into your item price. but if you disagree, you can set your handling fee here. note : to set different handling fees for domestic and international shipments, click the link next to the handling fee box. tariff number : items you ship to the european union should include a tariff number. otherwise, they may be delayed in customs or returned to you. a tariff number is kind of like an id — it indicates what type of item your package contains. at the time of this writing, etsy is developing a tool to help sellers locate the correct tariff numbers for their merchandise ; in the meantime, try browsing the taric consultation tool, provided by the eu commission ’ s taxation and customs union, available here :. ( we talk https : / / ec. europa. eu / taxation _ customs / dds2 / taric / more about shipping internationally in chapter 13. ) item weight and size : use the item weight and item size fields to enter the item ’ s weight and size. if you let etsy calculate the shipping and you enter the weight and size info, you can preview how much it will cost to ship to buyers in various locations. this information appears at the bottom of the shipping section of the add a new listing page. choosing a returns and exchanges policy the returns and exchanges section of the add a new listing page ( refer to figure 12 - 10 ) enables you to choose which policy you want to apply for this item with regard to returns and exchanges. you can apply the default policy, choose a custom one, or create a new one. for more on policies, see chapter 8. previewing and publishing your listing your last step is to publish your listing. when you do, it will appear in your etsy shop. before you publish your listing, however, take a moment to preview it. that way, you ’ ll be able to see how it will look to potential buyers. follow these steps : 1. click the preview button at the bottom of the add a new listing page. etsy displays a preview of your listing ( see figure 12 - 11 ). 2. review your listing. 3. if you notice something you need to change, click the continue editing button at the bottom of the page, make your change, and click the preview button again. 4. when you ’ re satisfied with your listing, click the publish button at the bottom of the page to publish it. a dialog box appears to notify you that by publishing your listing, you agree to pay a nonrefundable fee of $ 0. 20. this is a one - time listing fee for which etsy will bill you. ( it ’ s a one - time fee, that is, unless you elect to auto - renew your listing if it expires. in that case, etsy will charge you the $ 0. 20 listing fee again. ) 5. click publish. the listing is submitted to etsy and appears in the listings page in shop manager. ( see figure 12 - 12. ) source : etsy. com figure 12 - 11 : review your listing. source : etsy. com figure 12 - 12 : your listing is posted. ch - ch - ch - ch - changes : editing a listing look, nobody ’ s perfect ( although, obviously, you ’ re pretty close ). you may make a mistake when creating your listing and need to change it. or maybe a potential buyer asks a question about the item you have for sale, and you want to update the item ’ s listing to reflect your answer. or you want to add or change a listing photo. or you ’ re having a sale, and you need to adjust the price of the item accordingly. fortunately, regardless of why you need to change a listing, editing etsy listings is a breeze ( and free ). you can edit any part of your item listing — the title, description, price, images, tags, materials, shipping information, returns and exchanges policy, you name it. here ’ s how : 1. click the shop manager button along the top of any etsy marketplace page. the shop manager page opens. 2. on the left side of the shop manager page, click the listings link. the listings page opens, with active listings displayed by default. 3. click the manage this listing button ( it looks like a gear ) on the listing you want to edit and choose edit from the menu that appears ( see figure 12 - 13 ). a page similar to the add a new listing page opens ( but with all the settings filled in ). source : etsy. com figure 12 - 13 : choose edit from the manage this listing menu. 4. edit the listing using the same techniques you employed to create it. 5. click the preview button to preview the edited listing. 6. click the publish button to publish the edited listing. if your listing just needs a few wee tweaks, etsy offers a couple tools to expedite your edits. one is the editing options menu. it offers quick access to various listing settings, including the listing title, tags, description, price, personalization settings, production partners, renewal options, shipping profiles, and shop section. just click the check box for the listing on the listings page, open the menu, select the setting you want to edit, and make your changes. another tool is the quick edit button, located in the upper - right corner of the listings page. when you click this button, etsy displays key listing settings for all active listings, including the description, quantity, price, sku, section, shipping profile, weight, size, and tags. just adjust whatever settings you want, for each listing you want ; when you ’ re finished, click exit quick edit. copycat : copying a listing maybe you have two similar items to sell but you ’ ve already created a listing for one of them. instead of creating a new listing from scratch for the second item, you can just copy the first listing and then make any adjustments to the new listing as needed. here ’ s how : 1. click the shop manager button along the top of any etsy marketplace page. the shop manager page opens. 2. on the left side of the shop manager page, click the listings link. the listings page opens, with active listings displayed by default. 3. click the manage this listing button on the listing you want to copy and choose copy from the menu that appears. a page similar to the add a new listing page opens but with all the settings filled in. 4. step through the listing - creation process, as described earlier in this chapter. as you do, notice that the information in each section is entered for you, based on the listing you copied. you can change this information as needed. 5. click the preview button to review your listing. 6. to post the listing, click the publish copy button. a dialog box appears to notify you that by publishing your listing, you agree to pay a non - refundable fee of $ 0. 20. 7. click publish. the copied listing is submitted to etsy and appears in the listings page in shop manager. renewable resources : renewing a listing in addition to copying listings, you can renew them. for example, you can renew a listing if it has expired, or if the item has sold out and you want to restock your shop by offering a new, identical item. you can also renew an active listing. when you do, the listing gets a new listing date and a new expiration date ( four months from the date of renewal ). a renewal can breathe new life into the listing, placing it closer to the top of item searches and in the new from your favorite shops section ( if others have favorited your shop ). when you renew a listing, even an active listing, you ’ re assessed a $ 0. 20 listing fee. renewing a sold - out listing to restock your shop by renewing a listing for a sold - out item, log in to your etsy account and follow these steps : 1. click the shop manager button along the top of any etsy marketplace page. the shop manager page opens. 2. on the left side of the shop manager page, click the listings link. the listings page opens, with active listings displayed by default. 3. select the sold out option button under listing status on the right side of the page. the listings page displays your sold - out listings. 4. click the manage this listing button on the listing you want to renew and choose renew from the menu that appears. etsy informs you of the expiration date for the renewed listing and the total for the listing fee. 5. click renew. etsy renews the listing. you can also view sold - out items on the orders & shipping page and renew them from there. to do so, click the completed tab, locate the listing you want to renew, and click the renew listing link. renewing active and expired listings renewing an active listing is just as easy as renewing a listing for an item that ’ s sold out. here ’ s how : 1. click the shop manager button along the top of any etsy marketplace page. the shop manager page opens. 2. on the left side of the shop manager page, click the listings link. the listings page opens, with active listings displayed by default. 3. click the manage this listing button on the listing you want to renew and choose renew from the menu that appears. etsy renews the listing. to renew an expired listing, you follow these same steps. the only difference is that after you open the listings page, you click the expired option button under listing status on the right side of the page to access the expired listing. you can set up a listing to renew automatically. one way is to select this option when you create the listing. another is to select the listing in the listings page, open the editing options menu, and choose change renewal options. then choose automatic and click ok in the dialog box that appears. pull the plug : deactivating a listing suppose that after you crafted an item and listed it in your etsy shop, your dog ate it. while you construct a replacement, you can deactivate the listing. when you deactivate a listing, it disappears from your etsy shop. to deactivate a listing, follow these steps : 1. click the shop manager button along the top of any etsy marketplace page. the shop manager page opens. 2. on the left side of the shop manager page, click the listings link. the listings page opens. 3. click the manage this listing button on the listing you want to deactivate and choose deactivate from the menu that appears. etsy prompts you to confirm the deactivation. 4. click the deactivate button. when you ’ re ready to reactivate the listing, again making it visible to people who visit your etsy shop, here ’ s what you do : 1. on the right side of the listings page, select the inactive option button under listing status. etsy displays your inactive listings. 2. click the manage this listing button on the listing you want to reactivate and choose activate from the menu that appears. etsy prompts you to confirm the activation. 3. click the activate button. deactivating a listing doesn ’ t change its expiration date. rearrange your face : rearranging the listings in your etsy shop as you add more listings to your etsy shop, you may decide that you want to rearrange the order in which they appear. for example, instead of having your items listed in the order you added them to your shop, with older items appearing farther down in the list ( the default ), maybe you want to group together all items of a certain color. or put all items of a single type on one page. or move all the most expensive items to the top of your store ’ s main page. or move an older listing to the top of your list. fortunately, rearranging the listings in your shop is simple. here ’ s how it ’ s done : 1. click the shop manager button along the top of any etsy marketplace page. the shop manager page opens. 2. on the left side of the shop manager page, under sales channels, click the pencil icon next to your etsy shop. 3. in the items section of the edit shop page, click the rearrange items button. ( see figure 12 - 14. ) source : etsy. com figure 12 - 14 : you can rearrange your listings from this page. 4. click an item you want to move and drag it to the desired slot in the order. 5. when you ’ re finished rearranging your items, click the exit rearrange mode button. 6. to change the sort order of your items ( for example, to put expensive items first ), click the sort button in the upper - right corner of the items section and choose an option from the list that appears. your changes are saved automatically. if you want to move a listing to a different section in your etsy shop, switch to the listings page in shop manager, click the listing ’ s manage this listing button ( it looks like a gear ), and choose change section from the menu that appears. in the dialog box that opens, click the drop - down list, choose the section you want to move the listing to, and click apply. feature comforts : featuring a listing in your etsy shop maybe you have a listing you really want people to see. in that case, you can feature it. featured listings — you can have as many as four at a time — appear in the featured section on your shop ’ s main page. to feature a listing : 1. click the shop manager button along the top of any etsy marketplace page. the shop manager page opens. 2. on the left side of the shop manager page, click the listings link. the listings page opens. 3. click the feature this listing icon ( it looks like a star ) on the listing you want to feature. voila! the listing appears as a featured item. shop mobile : managing listings with the etsy seller app you can add, edit, copy, renew, and deactivate listings using the etsy seller app on your mobile phone. to do so, tap the listings button on the bottom of the screen. then do one of the following in the screen that appears. to add a new listing, tap create, choose copy an existing listing or start from scratch, and follow the onscreen prompts. using the sell on etsy app is super efficient — especially if you used your mobile phone to photograph your item, because you can access your photos from within the app. talk about big time - savers! to edit an existing listing, tap it to open it. then tap the listing heading. finally, tap the pencil icon in any section to change the contents of that section. to share, copy, deactivate, renew, or delete any active listing, open the listing, tap the three dots in the upper - right corner of your screen, and choose share, copy, deactivate, renew, or delete. then follow the onscreen prompts. chapter 13 order up! processing and shipping orders in this chapter tracking orders and receiving payment packaging and shipping items managing orders on the etsy seller app omg. you made your first sale! what a moment. obviously, the first thing you should do when you complete a sale is celebrate. maybe do a little happy dance or go get some ice cream. just don ’ t celebrate too long. you ’ ve got an order to process and an item to ship! the moment someone buys your item, it ’ s time to begin the difficult process of letting it go. as hard as it may be to say goodbye — after all, odds are you slaved over its creation and gave it the best care possible — the time has come to send it on its way. in this chapter, you find out how to deal with end - of - sale matters, like finding out when you ’ ve sold an item, receiving payment, processing an order, packaging it, and shipping it to its new owner. you ’ ve got sale : finding out you have a sale when you sell an item in your etsy shop, etsy notifies you via email straightaway. this email contains loads of important information and links, including the following : which item sold the price and quantity of the item that sold a link to the order details a link to the listing a link to your shop manager a mark order as shipped link to make sure your email program ’ s spam filter doesn ’ t come between you and these notification emails, consider adding the email address to your list of safe senders. emails @ mail. etsy. com for details on how to perform this task, see your email program ’ s help information. baby got track : keeping track of orders as mentioned in chapter 7, the shop manager orders & shipping page displays details about open orders. you use this page to keep track of which items you ’ ve sold and whether those items have been shipped. to access this page, click the shop manager link that appears along the top of every etsy marketplace page to open the shop manager. ( see figure 13 - 1. ) then do one of the following : click the all orders link on the shop manager dashboard. click the orders & shipping link on the left side of the shop manager screen. either way, the orders & shipping page opens with the new tab selected. this page displays a list of any items you ’ ve sold but not yet shipped. ( see figure 13 - 2. ) source : etsy. com figure 13 - 1 : open shop manager. source : etsy. com figure 13 - 2 : view sold items in the new tab of the orders & shipping page. you can view orders you ’ ve shipped by clicking the completed tab of the orders & shipping page. the entry for your order on the orders & shipping page contains several useful links to help you manage and process your order. ( see figure 13 - 3. ) for example, you can click the buyer ’ s name to open a menu that provides access to their user profile, their order history with you, and their email address. there are also links to quickly renew the listing if you have more of the same item in stock ( refer to chapter 12 ), print a shipping label for the item and update the status of the order after it has been shipped ( discussed in this chapter ), contact the buyer via an etsy message ( also discussed in this chapter ), and more. source : etsy. com figure 13 - 3 : the order entry contains lots of useful information and links. adding tabs to the orders & shipping page you can add custom tabs to the orders & shipping page to reflect steps in your workflow. for example, you can add a packaged tab for orders that you ’ ve packaged but haven ’ t yet shipped. to add custom a tab, follow these steps : 1. in shop manager, open the orders & shipping page. 2. click the pencil icon next to the completed tab. the customize progress steps dialog box opens. ( see the following figure. ) source : etsy. com 3. click the add a new step link. 4. type a name for the new step and click save changes. a new tab appears, with the name you typed in step 3. show me the money : receiving payment it ’ s the bedrock of capitalism : when you sell something, you expect to be paid. fortunately, etsy makes the process of receiving payments as painless as possible. as in, assuming you ’ ve provided all your banking information ( which you see how to do in chapter 6, when you set up your shop ), it happens automatically. the question, then, is when? here ’ s your answer : if your shop is set up to use etsy payments ( and odds are it is, because for sellers in several countries, using etsy payments is required ), the funds from your sale will be added to your etsy payment account right away. then they ’ ll be deposited into your bank account according to your deposit schedule — which, for new sellers, is every monday by default. ( you can change your deposit schedule to pick a different day or frequency ; find out how in chapter 16. ) thanksgiving : thanking the buyer like you, when someone buys something from your etsy shop, that person receives an email from etsy. this email is a receipt of sorts that contains all the details of the order. buyers can click the order number found in the email to view the order online. even though etsy sends your buyer a confirmation email, you can still message the buyer to say thanks. this is an important part of customer service, so we recommend doing it. ( we talk more about customer service in chapter 15. ) to send a message to the buyer, follow these steps : 1. in shop manager, open the orders & shipping page and locate the order. 2. click the message icon ( the one that looks like an envelope ) on the right side of the order entry. ( refer to figure 13 - 3. ) a pane opens on the right side of your screen. ( see figure 13 - 4. ) you can use this pane to type a message to the buyer and to complete other tasks such as marking the order complete, leaving yourself a note about the order, obtaining a shipping label and a return label, and more. 3. type a message for the buyer in the box provided. 4. click send. etsy delivers the message to your buyer. if the buyer replies, their response will be visible from this same pane, as well as on the messages page in shop manager. ( for more on messages, see chapter 15. ) source : etsy. com figure 13 - 4 : leave a message for the buyer. auto - thanking shop owners who handle large volumes of orders — heck, even shop owners who don ’ t — may benefit from using etsy ’ s message to buyers feature. this feature enables you to compose a message to be sent automatically to a buyer immediately after they purchase something from your shop. sellers typically use this message to thank the buyer and to provide important details about how the rest of the transaction will play out. to set up your own message to buyers, follow these steps : 1. in shop manager, click the settings link on the left side of the screen. 2. click info & appearance in the list that appears. 3. in the info & appearance page, scroll down to the message to buyers section ( see the following figure ), and type your message. source : etsy. com 4. click save changes. notice in that the figure also shows a message to buyers of digital items box on the info & appearance page. enter a message in this box if your shop sells downloadable digital items — for example, digital art or a knitting pattern. handle me with care : packaging items for shipment everyone knows that it ’ s what ’ s on the inside that really counts. but that doesn ’ t mean that what ’ s on the outside isn ’ t important, too. translation : when shipping an item to your buyer, be sure to package it with care. this section discusses what types of packaging to use, where to get it, and how to wrap different sorts of items, and offers a few helpful packing tips along the way. how you package your items says something about you and your etsy shop. make sure it doesn ’ t say, “ i ’ m lazy and careless! ” choosing packing materials imagine a venn diagram with one circle representing etsy users and another representing people who love the environment. odds are, the part where those circles intersect is pretty huge. this explains why so many etsy sellers prefer to use recycled shipping materials — boxes, bubble wrap, envelopes, packing paper, and the like. some even go the diy route, crafting their own mailers and packaging materials from various forms of detritus — for example, running old wrapping paper and magazine sheets through a shredder to create cushioning for fragile items. the great thing about this approach ( other than the survival of our planet and its inhabitants ) is that it ’ s free! speaking of free : if you ship via the u. s. postal service ( usps ), you can obtain priority mail boxes free of charge. visit the usps website ( ) for more info. www. usps. com even the most devoted recyclers may need to purchase certain types of packaging supplies, such as packing tape or the occasional box or mailer. fortunately, you can buy these types of items without selling out the environment, thanks to a company called ecoenclose. ecoenclose has partnered with etsy to offer packaging materials made from 100 percent recycled materials or from certified responsibly sourced paper, at prices that are as competitive as serena williams. for more information, see. www. ecoenclose. com / planet - friendly - packaging etsy ’ s partnership with ecoenclose is part of its broader effort to address environmental issues like climate change. in fact, etsy is the first global commerce company ever to offset 100 percent of its carbon emissions generated by shipping! of course, plenty of other companies offer shipping supplies, too. whether you seek boxes, bubble wrap, ribbon, or tissue, you can find what you need at these sites : flat and rate plus weight : figuring out which way to go the usps offers both weight - based rates and flat - rate pricing. which option you choose depends on how heavy your item is. simply put, the more you can cram into a flat - rate box, the better the deal. for example, if your piece fits in the small flat - rate box or envelope and is on the heavy side, the flat - rate route is for you. if the piece is lighter but requires a medium or large box, the weight - based rate may be better, especially if the item is bound for a shipping zone near you. uline : www. uline. com paper mart : www. papermart. com nashville wraps : www. nashvillewraps. com you can also visit your local office - supply store ( think office depot, staples, and the like ) to stock up on shipping supplies — although these stores generally charge higher prices. if you have space in your home or studio, set up a shipping station and stock it with all your shipping supplies. trust us, it ’ ll make packaging your pieces so much easier! using attractive, brand - friendly packaging don ’ t just stuff your lovingly crafted item in an envelope and plop it in the post. instead, develop packaging that, in addition to protecting your item, looks good. you don ’ t have to wrap your packages in expensive gift paper with hand - curled ribbon ( although some etsy sellers do ) ; most buyers are perfectly satisfied with a package that has been carefully and securely wrapped with clean, plain, environmentally friendly paper. in addition, design packaging that reflects your brand. for example, if your brand is froufrou, your packaging needs to be, too. on the flip side, if your brand is all modern minimalism, you want to ensure that your packaging is similarly under - the - top. also, invest in stickers or a stamp with your shop ’ s logo for use in your packaging. ( you find out more about developing your brand in chapter 14. ) one easy way to reflect your brand in your packaging is to use colored tissue paper. for example, if your logo is green and red, you can wrap your items in green and red tissue. if you go this route, be sure to moisture - proof your package by wrapping it in plastic ; otherwise, the dye from the paper may bleed onto your piece if the package gets wet in transit. protecting the item when your buyer receives your piece, it needs to be in excellent shape ( think : your pilates instructor ). to make sure that happens, you need to pack your item carefully — especially if it ’ s fragile. use cushioning materials such as bubble wrap or shredded paper to prevent breakage, and employ plenty of sturdy packing tape to ensure that your package isn ’ t tattered en route. ( see the previous section for more on supplies. ) also, pack bendable booty with a firm, flat backing. finally, if your item is like the wicked witch of the west — that is, moisture - averse — slip it in a plastic bag and seal it up before sending it on its way. although packaging your items carefully to prevent damage is critical, don ’ t take things too far. excessive packaging — especially if it doesn ’ t involve recycled materials — is wasteful. including extras in your parcel it goes without saying that your package needs to include the item your buyer purchased. beyond that, you may include any ( or all ) of the following : a handwritten note : if you want to make your buyer ’ s day, include a handwritten note in your packaging. it doesn ’ t have to be a 40 - page opus ; just a few lines thanking the buyer for their purchase and wishing them well will do. ( be sure to address them by name — it ’ s so much more personal! ) you can also use this opportunity to ask your buyer to leave feedback about you and your item on etsy. invest in special note cards or postcards that reflect your brand. better yet, make your own! for example, design a note card that includes your shop logo or, if you sell art prints, one of your bestselling images. business cards : to make sure your buyer remembers you and your store, slip two business cards into your package — one for your buyer and one for their billionaire best friend. care instructions : if the item you ’ re sending requires special care — maybe it needs to be washed by hand — include appropriate instructions in your package. a coupon code : including a promo code in your packaging is a great way to generate sales. for help creating promo codes, see chapter 14. a freebie : some etsy sellers include freebies in their packaging. these are small, lightweight items tossed in at no additional cost. the best freebies reflect your brand or your inventory in some way — for example, buttons, bookmarks, stickers, or magnets with your shop logo or samples of new or favorite products in your line. another approach is to include freebies that complement the item purchased. for instance, if you specialize in hand - sewn dog collars, you may toss in some scooby snacks. or if you spin yarn, you can include a printout of a simple pattern you designed. although some etsy sellers like to include candy or other treats in their packages, it ’ s not always a great idea. for one thing, some buyers may be diabetic or suffer from nut allergies, so they might not be too jazzed to receive treats with their item. for another thing, many buyers live in hot climates, meaning that any candy you send can melt, thereby ruining your piece. offering gift - wrapping services lots of people use etsy to find one - of - a - kind gifts. so, it ’ s a good idea to offer gift - wrapping services — for a price, of course! if you do decide to offer gift - wrapping services, you ’ ll need to have some special packaging materials on hand, like wrapping paper ( duh ), sharp scissors, scotch tape, ribbon, bows, and tags. and, of course, you need to know how to wrap your items like a pro so that they look attractive and appealing. ( this web page has some good pointers :. ) www. thespruce. com / how - to - wrap - a - gift - 5498619 you ’ ll also want to update your etsy shop to indicate that you offer gift - wrapping, and how much you charge for it. here ’ s how : 1. in shop manager, click the settings link on the left side of the screen. 2. click options in the list that appears. 3. on the shop options page, under offer gift wrapping, select the enable and set price option button. the offer gift wrapping section expands to include additional options : price per order ( set to $ 4. 00 by default ), gift wrapping details, and gift wrapping preview. ( see figure 13 - 5. ) 4. to change how much you charge for gift - wrapping services, open the price per order drop - down list and choose a different amount. 5. optionally, use the gift wrapping details box to enter more information about gift wrapping or to give the buyer any special instructions. 6. to include a photo of a gift - wrapped item, click the camera icon under gift wrapping preview. a standard file - selection dialog box opens. 7. locate and select the image you want to use and click open. 8. to give your buyer the opportunity to include their own message with their gift, select the enabled option button under offer gift message. ( refer to figure 13 - 5. ) 9. click the save button at the bottom of the shop options page. source : etsy. com figure 13 - 5 : offering gift wrapping. ship happens : choosing a shipping carrier the united states postal service ( usps ). fedex. ups. carrier pigeon. all these are excellent ( or at least interesting ) ways to ship items to buyers. however, to paraphrase george orwell, “ all shipping carriers are equal, but some are more equal than others ” — on etsy, anyway. so, which carrier on etsy is the most equal? hands down, it ’ s usps. this is because etsy has established a special relationship with usps to help sellers streamline the shipping process and even receive discounts of up to 30 percent on shipping charges. it ’ s kind of a “ friends with benefits ” situation — only in this case, the benefits go to you, the etsy seller! to capitalize on this “ special relationship ” with the usps, you must use etsy shipping labels. more on these in a minute. with usps, etsy sellers enjoy four key benefits : calculated shipping : as we say in chapter 12, this feature takes the guesswork out of shipping charges by calculating them for you. it ’ s, like, the best. etsy shipping labels : with this feature, you can print usps shipping labels right from your computer. using etsy shipping labels also affects your smooth shipping and your star seller ratings. ( see chapter 3 for more on these. ) smooth shipping : sellers who consistently ship on time receive this badge. cheaper postage : using etsy shipping labels enables you to save on postage. so we ’ re all - in on using calculated shipping and etsy shipping labels to ship via usps, and for the rest of this chapter, we assume that you are, too. but no matter which carrier you choose, you ’ ll want to be in the know on these key points : how long they take to deliver what options they offer and how much they cost whether services like insurance and delivery confirmation are included ( see the sidebar “ insure thing : insuring your parcel, ” later in this chapter, for details ) whether they pick up outgoing packages from your home or work what they do if a package gets lost we ’ re talking mainly about shipping domestically from within the united states here. for information about shipping internationally, see the section “ crafters without borders : shipping internationally, ” later in this chapter. using another carrier maybe you really, really want to use a different carrier, like fedex or ups. or maybe you are based somewhere outside the united states. in that case, you ’ ll need to compute shipping costs yourself and enter them manually when you create a new item listing. for help computing shipping costs, visit your preferred carrier ’ s website. willing and label : using etsy shipping labels printing an etsy shipping label for usps shipments is a breeze. however, you need to do a couple things before you print your first shipping label : set up etsy to receive the best usps shipping rate possible. otherwise, you won ’ t get that discount we mention earlier in the chapter. choose your etsy shipping label preferences. getting the best rate to set up etsy shipping labels so that you receive the best usps shipping rate possible, follow these steps : 1. in shop manager, click the settings link on the left side of the screen. 2. click shipping settings in the list that appears. 3. on the shipping settings page, click the rates & upgrades link. 4. under shipping rates, select the etsy shipping label rates option button. ( see figure 13 - 6. ) source : etsy. com figure 13 - 6 : getting the best rate with etsy shipping labels. choosing etsy shipping label preferences to choose etsy shipping label settings, including certain settings for international shipments, follow these steps : 1. in shop manager, click the settings link on the left side of the screen. 2. click shipping settings in the list that appears. 3. on the shipping settings page, click the shipping label options link. 4. in the shipping label preferences section ( see figure 13 - 7 ), under downloading labels, specify how you want to download your shipping labels and what size you want them to be. source : etsy. com figure 13 - 7 : choosing etsy shipping label preferences. 5. under pre - filled calculated shipping labels, specify whether you want to fill out your labels manually or have etsy pre - fill them. 6. under usps customs form signature, choose whether you want any custom forms in orders shipped internationally to be signed and dated automatically or if you want to sign and date them manually. if you choose yes, this section expands to include a text box, in which you can type your first and last name as your “ signature. ” 7. under international customs forms, specify whether you want the default item description to reflect the item listing, or to use the same description for all items you ship. if you choose the latter, the section expands to include a text box, in which you can type the default description you want to use. 8. under default label presets, optionally specify any package details you want pre - filled on the label — which is helpful if you tend to ship items of a similar size and weight. 9. click the save preferences button. printing an etsy shipping label after you choose your shipping label preferences, you ’ re ready to print the etsy shipping label for your order. here ’ s what you do : 1. in shop manager, click the orders & shipping link on the left side of the screen. 2. locate the order for which you want to print an etsy shipping label. 3. click the get shipping labels button ( the one with a delivery van ) in the top - right corner of the order entry. a delivery information for order dialog box opens. ( see figure 13 - 8. ) this dialog box reflects the shipping settings you entered when you created the item listing and any options the buyer selected. 4. review the ship date ( the date the carrier will receive your package ), package type, package weight, package dimensions, and delivery service, and adjust them if needed. invest in a postal scale and flexible tape measure. you ’ ll need these to weigh your packages and gauge their dimensions. 5. if you want someone to sign for the package, click the signature confirmation check box to select it. 6. if desired, insure your package against loss or damage by typing a monetary value in the insurance : package value to insure field. the value you enter should reflect both the value of the contents and the cost of postage ( up to $ 5, 000 ). be aware that requiring signature confirmation and adding insurance will increase the price of your postage. source : etsy. com figure 13 - 8 : printing an etsy shipping label. insure thing : insuring your parcel remember that movie castaway? in it, tom hanks plays a fedex employee whose cargo plane crashes, marooning him on a desert island with only a volleyball for company. this storyline just goes to show you that sometimes planes carrying packages crash, jettisoning their cargo to the bottom of the sea. to ensure that you ’ re covered if your package goes astray, you may want to opt for insurance — especially if your item is on the pricey side. ( insuring packages containing less expensive pieces may be prohibitively expensive ; you ’ ll need to decide whether it ’ s worth it to you. ) or you can rely on etsy ’ s purchase protection program, which, for orders that qualify, will refund your buyer ( up to $ 250 ) and you ’ ll keep your earnings if their package winds up lost or damaged in transit. we talk more about the purchase protection program in chapter 15. 7. optionally, click the add note button in the upper - right corner of the dialog box, enter a note to the buyer, and click save. 8. if the delivery information for order dialog box suggests an address that differs from the one provided, select the use address button. 9. click the review button. the confirm shipping label purchase window opens. etsy notifies you that the cost for the label will be added to your payment account. ( for info on paying your etsy bill, see chapter 16. ) 10. if you want to receive an email notification regarding this purchase, select the send me a copy of all notifications check box. 11. click the purchase button. etsy displays the you just purchased x label dialog box. ( see figure 13 - 9. ) source : etsy. com figure 13 - 9 : the you just purchased x label dialog box. 12. optionally, click the down arrow under the print shipping labels button and select the print format ( for example, 2 labels per page ). 13. to print the label, click the print shipping labels button. a pdf file containing your label opens. 14. click the pdf application ’ s print function to send the label to your printer. although you can use regular paper, it ’ s better to use paper with adhesive backing. that way, you don ’ t have to use tape to attach the label to your package. if you do go the tape route, use clear packaging tape and take care not to obscure the bar code on the label. 15. securely attach your shipping label to your package. the you just purchased x label dialog box features two other buttons : print packing slips : click this button to generate a pdf file containing a packing slip ( to be included inside your shipment ) and an order receipt ( for your records ). print a usps scan form : if you ’ re shipping lots of packages at one time, click this button to generate a pdf file containing a single barcode for all your packages. you print both these pdf files using your pdf application ’ s print function. the you just purchased x label dialog box also features a request a pickup link. click this link if you want to avoid a trip to your local post office and instead have usps pick up the package at your residence or your place of business. we talk more about handing your package off to usps later in this chapter. slip - slidin ’ away : creating custom packing slips a standard packing slip includes your run - of - the - mill information — information about the item purchased, a cost breakdown, and so on. however, you can customize the packing slip for an item to include your shop icon, a promo code, and a personalized note to the buyer. here ’ s how : 1. locate the order for which you want to create and print a customized packing slip on the orders & shipping page. then click the more button ( the one with three dots ) in the bottom - right corner of the order entry and choose print from the menu that appears. a print - related dialog box opens. 2. make sure the packing slips check box is selected. then click the customize options link. the dialog box expands to show additional options. ( see the following figure. ) source : etsy. com 3. use the check boxes in the expanded area to specify what information you want to include on the packing slip. if you ’ ve created promo codes for your shop, you can include one on the packing slip. to add a promo code, select the add coupon code check box and choose the desired promo code from the corresponding drop - down list. for more on creating promo codes, see chapter 14. 4. optionally, select the add personalized note check box and type a note in the box that appears. 5. click the print order ( s ) button. if the buyer indicated that the item is a gift when they purchased the item, then certain information will be omitted from the packing slip, like the price. the packing slip will also include a message from the buyer, if you ’ ve set up your shop to allow that. 16. click the done button. etsy updates the order ’ s invoice and receipt to show that it has been shipped, essentially closing the order. the item also appears on the completed tab, which you can access by clicking the completed tab on the orders & shipping page. deliverance : sending your package on its merry way you ’ ve packaged your item and affixed its shipping label. in other words, you ’ re ready to send it on its merry way. as mentioned in the preceding section, you can click the request a pickup link in the you just purchased x label dialog box to request a free pickup from usps. alternatively, you locate the order in the completed tab of the orders & shipping page, select the check box in the upper - left corner of the order entry, and click the request a pickup button along the top of the page. ( see figure 13 - 10. ) either way, you ’ ll see a dialog box like the one shown in figure 13 - 11 ; provide the requested information and click request pickup. source : etsy. com figure 13 - 10 : requesting a pickup. you can also use the usps website ( ) to www. usps. com / pickup schedule a free pickup. alternatively, you can hand off your package to your regular mail carrier, take it to your local post office, or ( if it weighs 13 ounces or less ) drop it in a collection box. while we ’ re on the subject of your regular mail carrier : make it a point to buddy up to yours. that way, if you have any shipping - related questions, your carrier will be happy to answer them! source : etsy. com figure 13 - 11 : entering pickup information. if you ’ re worried about protecting your privacy during the shipping process, consider obtaining a post office box and using that to send and receive etsy - related packages. for information, go to. https : / / poboxes. usps. com profile pick : saving and selecting a shipping profile chapter 12 shows you how to create a shipping profile based on the shipping settings you entered when you created your first listing. to review, a shipping profile is a collection of shipping - related settings that you can apply to a listing in one fell swoop instead of entering them one by one. what if you want to create a new shipping profile, but you aren ’ t in the process of generating a new listing? in that case, follow these steps : 1. in shop manager, click the settings link on the left side of the screen. 2. click shipping settings in the list that appears. the shipping settings page opens with the shipping profiles options displayed. ( see figure 13 - 12. ) source : etsy. com figure 13 - 12 : the shipping profiles settings. 3. click the create profile button. the create shipping profile dialog box opens. ( see figure 13 - 13. ) this dialog box is nearly identical to the shipping section of the add a new listing page. 4. repeat the steps for setting shipping options in chapter 12 to set the shipping options for your new shipping profile. 5. in the profile name field, type a descriptive name for this shipping profile. 6. click the save profile button. etsy saves your shipping profile. the next time you create a listing, you ’ ll be able to choose this shipping profile in the shipping section of the add a new listing page. if you need to, you can edit your shipping profile. to do so, open the shipping settings page with the shipping profiles options displayed. locate the entry for the shipping profile you want to edit and click its edit link. an edit shipping profile dialog box appears ; it looks a lot like the create shipping profile dialog box, but with all your information filled in. adjust the settings as needed and click the save profile button to save your changes. if you want to offer free shipping for certain items only, you can create a “ free shipping ” shipping profile and apply it to any listings you create for those items. simply follow the steps in this section and select the free domestic shipping and / or free international shipping check boxes. source : etsy. com figure 13 - 13 : the create shipping profile dialog box. crafters without borders : shipping internationally although you can certainly limit your etsy business to domestic buyers, part of the fun of selling on etsy is connecting with international customers. first, however, you need to get a feel for the ins and outs of shipping internationally. keep these points in mind : items shipped to some countries, such as canada and countries in the european union, may be subject to duties or taxes. it ’ s not your responsibility to pay these duties or taxes ; it ’ s the buyer ’ s. still, it doesn ’ t hurt to remind them. etsy handles this for you by including boilerplate text to that effect in the shop policies section of your shop. this text also reminds buyers that it ’ s not your fault if your package gets stuck in customs. if your package contains “ potentially dutiable contents ” ( that ’ s post - office speak for items subject to duties or taxes ), you need to include a customs form — period, end of story. once again, etsy has your back. when you print an etsy shipping label for an order bound for another country, it serves as both your shipping label and your customs form. shipping certain items — food products, plant and animal products, precious jewelry, and so on — is prohibited in some countries. to find out whether sending your item to a particular country is verboten, direct your web browser to the individual country listings page on the usps website at and click the link for http : / / pe. usps. com / text / imm / ab _ toc. htm the country in question to view a list of restricted and prohibited items. ( note that these prohibitions and restrictions apply regardless of what carrier you use. ) some countries require you to include a tariff number in your shipment. as mentioned in chapter 12, packages you ship to countries in the eu should include a tariff number to avoid delays and prevent your package from being rejected by customs authorities. to review, a tariff number is an id number that indicates what type of item your package contains. etsy is currently developing a tool to help sellers locate the correct tariff numbers for their merchandise, but it ’ s not ready yet. so for now, you can use the taric consultation tool, provided by the eu commission ’ s taxation and customs union, available here :. https : / / ec. europa. eu / taxation _ customs / dds2 / taric / when you ship internationally, don ’ t indicate that the item is a gift, even if your buyer asks you to in an attempt to avoid paying duties and taxes. doing so isn ’ t cricket, and it can get you into trouble. if you ’ re just getting started, consider shipping to just a few countries — say, canada, mexico, japan, australia, and european union ( eu ) countries. then, when you ’ re more comfortable with the procedures involved, you can expand to ship everywhere. just don ’ t indicate that you ’ re willing to ship anywhere on earth unless you ’ ve done the research to find out just what that may involve! mobile carrier : managing orders on the etsy seller app the etsy seller app notifies you anytime you make a sale by sending you a push notification ( accompanied by a cheerful ka - ching ). and just as you can create and edit listings on the etsy seller app, you can use the app to process orders and initiate the shipping process. here ’ s how : to view your orders, tap orders. ( see figure 13 - 14. ) source : etsy. com figure 13 - 14 : viewing orders using the etsy seller app. to see order details, tap the order on the orders screen. ( see figure 13 - 15. ) contact the buyer to say thanks by tapping the message buyer button at the top of the order details screen. ( refer to figure 13 - 15. ) source : etsy. com figure 13 - 15 : accessing order details using the etsy seller app. begin the shipping process by tapping create shipping label ; then follow the onscreen prompts. tap complete order when the order is complete to close it out. part 4 all up in your business : handling business matters in this part … get tips on branding and marketing your business like a pro. find out how to provide unrivaled customer service. discover how to handle financial matters. explore ways to grow your etsy business. chapter 14 super market : marketing your etsy business in this chapter defining your brand promoting your listings on etsy offering discounts connecting with customers on social media sharing videos with etsy explore marketing is as old as dirt. indeed, the first marketer was most likely the first cro - magnon to convince a fellow knuckle dragger to barter for his mastodon - fur cape instead of the one offered one cave over. ( “ this mastodon - fur cape not stink like other! ” ) if you want your etsy shop to evolve into a thriving enterprise, you need to do the same. this chapter is devoted to the ins and outs of marketing your etsy business so that it doesn ’ t go the way of the neanderthal. this chapter constitutes a very basic primer on marketing. if you ’ re serious about your etsy business, you ’ ll want to study this subject in greater depth. small business marketing strategies all - in - one for dummies ( wiley ) is a great jumping - off point! brandy, you ’ re a fine girl : building your brand an important part of any business — whether it ’ s a multinational widget - making corporation with more employees than lichtenstein has citizens, a small mom - and - pop pizzeria that serves the surrounding neighborhood, or your etsy shop — is its brand. so what exactly is a brand? although many people believe that the word brand is synonymous with the word logo, it ’ s not. yes, your logo is part of your brand ( more on that in a moment ), but the brand itself is a much broader concept. think of your brand as the image your business projects. your brand is what you ’ re known for. before you begin building your brand, you need to pin down a few key pieces of information : brand promise : there ’ s an old saying in sales : “ people don ’ t buy drill bits — they buy holes. ” that ’ s a good way to think about your brand promise. it ’ s what you really sell. for example, suppose your etsy shop features homemade candles. the brand promise isn ’ t the candle ’ s wax and wick ; it ’ s the pleasure your buyer will experience when they light it. target market : who is likely to be interested in your product? men or women? adults or kids? singles or marrieds? what are their interests? where do they live? how much disposable income do they have? and so on. you use this information to tailor your messaging. competition : what brands is your brand competing with? what do they offer? how are they similar to your brand? how are they different? do your target markets overlap? this assessment can help you position your own brand to gain an advantage. brand personality : whether it ’ s silly, sophisticated, snarky, smart, sweet, or something else entirely, your brand ’ s personality should spark an emotional connection with your target market. visual elements such as your logo and color palette, and voice, like your tag line ( discussed next ), listing descriptions, shop announcement, and even the messages you send are how you convey your brand ’ s personality. unique selling proposition ( usp ) : every good brand has at least one characteristic that makes it different from anything else. going back to the candle example, maybe your candles burn longer, smell better, are prettier, or come in more varieties than other candles. whatever special quality your candles have, that ’ s their usp. with this information in hand, you ’ re ready to start building your brand. the following sections explain how to create tag lines and logos and discuss the importance of infusing your brand into everything related to your etsy shop. composing a tag line do you recognize the phrase “ you deserve a break today ”? what about “ just do it, ” “ taste the rainbow, ” or “ got milk ”? if so, you know the power of a tag line. a tag line is a memorable slogan that expresses what a brand is and does. part of building your brand is composing your own tag line. a good tag line is short, concise, and specific : the longer the tag line, the more likely people are to lose interest in it. is clever and catchy : these types of tag lines stick. speaks to your target market : don ’ t use language favored by your 60 - year - old great aunt if your target market is 20 - something hipsters. reflects your brand ’ s personality : a quirky brand calls for a quirky tag line. hints at your brand promise and its usp : take the old tag line for bounty paper towels : “ the quicker picker - upper. ” it suggests that these paper towels don ’ t just clean, they clean fast. a great place for your tag line is your shop title, banner, or description. for help adding your tag line to these shop elements, see chapter 6. creating a logo a logo is a graphic symbol or design that represents your brand. obvious examples of logos include the mcdonalds golden arches and the nike swoop. like your tag line, your logo — along with other visual elements, such as the colors and fonts you use in your etsy shop and in marketing materials like business cards and whatnot — must reflect your brand. keep these points in mind as you develop your logo : consider your colors. different colors evoke different emotions and convey different ideas. for example, if you specialize in motorcycle gear, a baby - pink logo may not be the way to go ( unless your motorcycle gear is for babies ). send the right message. your logo ’ s visual style says something about your brand. for example, if your logo is minimalist, it suggests that your brand is, too. be sure your logo sends the message you want. be original. it ’ s fine to look to other brands and logos for inspiration, but don ’ t copy — especially if the logo in question is a competitor ’ s. developing a logo can be harder than you may think, so don ’ t hesitate to get help. even if you ’ re on a strict budget, you can always ask an artistic friend for assistance or try trading services with a professional designer. infusing your brand in all you do the key to branding is infusing it in everything you do. you should express your brand, using your tag line and logo, in your business cards, letterhead, envelopes, postcards, packaging, and other marketing materials. ( tip : include your social media handles on these branded materials, too. we talk more about social media later in this chapter. ) your brand also needs to permeate your etsy shop, appearing in your shop ’ s banner and / or your shop icon and your order receipt banner. showing your brand everywhere increases the chances of potential customers noticing your brand among the flotsam and jetsam of etsy. marlon brand - o : protecting your brand it ’ s not enough to build your brand. you need to protect it, too. it ’ s your intellectual property ( ip )! fortunately, etsy makes it easy to protect your brand from copycats and thieves, and it does so through its reporting portal. before you can use the etsy reporting portal to report any ip violations, you must register your brand with the portal. to do so, visit https : / / www. etsy. com / ipreporting and follow the prompts. ( you ’ ll be asked to indicate who owns the ip you want to protect, your name, you company, your job title, the company address, and your contact info. ) after you ’ ve registered with the portal, you can enter a specific piece of ip. to start, click the intellectual properties tab in the etsy reporting portal and click the add a property button. you ’ ll be prompted to specify the ip type ( copyright, trademark, patent, or other ), indicate who owns the property, and provide various details about the property, like whether it ’ s an item or design ; an image, audio, video, or other media ; writing or other text ; or a name, title, slogan, or other short phrase. if you encounter a listing on etsy that infringes on a property you ’ ve entered into the portal, you can report it. to do so, open the reporting portal and click the reports tab ; then click the add a report button and follow the prompts. one more way to boost your brand is to create a custom web address for your etsy shop — something a little snappier and easier to remember than the default. to do this, though, www. etsy. com / shop / yourshopname you must upgrade to etsy plus. ( we cover etsy plus in chapter 17. ) poetry in promotion : advertising on etsy here ’ s a fun fact : the word advertise derives from the latin ad vertere, meaning “ to turn the mind toward. ” and if you ’ ve ever become ravenously hungry after watching a pizza commercial, you know it totally works. etsy offers an easy way advertise your listings : etsy ads. with etsy ads, you indicate how much you want to spend each day and which listings you want to promote. then, when a shopper enters a keyword or phrase that relates to one of your advertised listings, etsy ads initiates an ad auction, during which your advertised listing competes with other similar advertised listings for a favorable spot in the shopper ’ s search results. just where your listing lands depends on two things : listing quality : based on your shop history and on the strength of your listing ’ s title and tags, etsy assigns a quality score to your listing. this quality score is used during the ad auction to assess how likely the shopper is to click your listing. listings with higher - quality scores appear higher in the search results. bid amount : the bid amount is how much you ’ ll pay per click. etsy calculates this amount based on your item ’ s relevance to the shopper ’ s search ( that is, how closely your listing title and / or tags match keywords or phrases entered by the shopper ) and on the likelihood the shopper will buy it. setting up etsy ads to set up etsy ads, follow these steps : 1. click the marketing link in the left side of the shop manager and click etsy ads in the pane that appears to open the etsy ads page. 2. click the get started button. 3. if prompted, select the option button that best describes why you want to use etsy ads — to increase visibility and awareness, to drive orders short - term, and so on — and click submit. 4. in the set your daily budget dialog box ( see figure 14 - 1 ), choose a preset budget or click choose a different amount and indicate your maximum spend. by default, the maximum daily spend is $ 25, but this can increase over time based on your sales and other factors. 5. click start advertising button. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 1 : the set your daily budget dialog box. by default, etsy ads advertises all your existing active listings and any new listings you create using the etsy seller app. to advertise new listings you create using the add a new listing page on the etsy website, however, you need to select the yes, advertise this listing option button ( see figure 14 - 2 ), which appears in the add a new listing page after you set up etsy ads. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 2 : opt to advertise a new listing during the listing - creation process. offsides! etsy offsite ads you aren ’ t the only one who advertises. etsy advertises, too — on search engines, social media sites, partner sites, and the google display network. this activity is relevant to you, personally, because an etsy ad could potentially feature one of your listings. ( omg! ) having a listing featured in an etsy offsite ad costs you nothing up front. and you ’ re automatically enrolled for consideration. however, if an offsite ad results in a sale, etsy charges you a fee — currently 15 percent if your shop pulled in less than $ 10, 000 during the last 365 days, or 12 percent if you hauled in more than that, but never exceeding $ 100 for u. s. - based shops. but here ’ s the thing : etsy and its advertising partners on are the ones that decide a ) whether to advertise one of your listings and b ) which listing to advertise. you don ’ t get a say. if your shop made more than $ 10, 000 in the last 365 days, you can ’ t opt out of etsy offsite ads. if your sales were more modest, however, you can. just click the settings link on the left side of the shop manager page, choose offsite ads in the pane that appears, click opt out of offsite ads, and then click it again to confirm the action. ( if you change your mind and decide that you do want to be featured in offsite ads, just navigate to this same page and click the turn on offsite ads button. ) viewing etsy ads stats after you set up etsy ads, the etsy ads page displays a performance dashboard, which you can use to track performance - related stats on your etsy ads campaign. ( see figure 14 - 3. ) for example, you can track the number of views, clicks, and orders resulting from etsy ads, as well as your total ad - related revenue and spend. to change the period for which stats are shown, use the your ad stats for drop - down list box above the dashboard. you can also view etsy ads stats broken down by individual listings. to do so, click the manage advertised listings link below the etsy ads performance dashboard ( refer to figure 14 - 3 ) to open the page shown in figure 14 - 4. this page displays the same stats as the dashboard for each advertised listing, as well as stats for click rate and return on advertising spend ( roas ). each listing entry on this page also features a search terms link, which you can click to see the keywords or phrases used to locate your item. this is a great way to identify which keywords and phrases are effective ( or not ). source : etsy. com figure 14 - 3 : the etsy ads performance dashboard. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 4 : manage your etsy ads listings here. deactivating etsy ads by default, etsy ads promotes all the active listings in your shop. if you want to promote only certain listings ( or none at all ), follow these steps : 1. on the etsy ads page, click the manage advertised listings link below the etsy ads performance dashboard. ( refer to figure 14 - 3. ) 2. locate the listing ( s ) whose ad ( s ) you want to deactivate. ( refer to figure 14 - 4. ) if you have a lot of listings, you can use the search box or filter button to locate the one ( s ) you want. 3. do one of the following : click the ad on / off toggle button on the right side of a listing entry to toggle it off. deselect the check box on the left side of the listing entry and click the update button. note : this approach works particularly well when you want to deselect multiple listings. 4. click the yes, turn off button in the dialog box that appears to confirm your choice. if you prefer to pause etsy ads rather than deactivate some or all of your listings, click the pause etsy ads button at the bottom of the etsy ads page. changing your ad spend suppose you want to increase or decrease your daily ad spend. here ’ s how : 1. on the etsy ads page, click the manage your budget button below the etsy ads performance dashboard. ( refer to figure 14 - 3, in the previous section. ) 2. in the manage your daily budget dialog box ( see figure 14 - 5 ), enter your new ad spend in the text box and click save changes. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 5 : change your ad spend. a major award : etsy design awards advertising is one way to generate interest in your etsy shop and listings. another way is to win an etsy design award. etsy design awards are a bit like the oscars : they celebrate the cream - of - the - crop etsy shops. etsy publicizes the winner of each etsy design award, which naturally drives traffic to their shops. but that ’ s not all. etsy also offers up actual cash prizes for etsy design award winners, including $ 20, 000 for the grand prize winner, $ 5, 000 for the people ’ s pick winner, and $ 1, 000 each for 10 category winners ( for example, jewelry, clothing & accessories, art, pets, furniture, and so on ). even if you don ’ t win one of these big prizes, you may be one of 100 finalists, who receive a $ 250 etsy gift card, $ 50 in etsy ads credits, 50 free listing credits, and a special “ finalist ” shop badge. to be eligible for an etsy design award, your shop must be active and contain at least five listings. entering is easy : just submit a listing from your shop when etsy calls for entries ( usually in the spring ). this listing should be “ your shining star item, ” says etsy — “ original innovative, high quality, have a wow factor, and serve a purpose. ” it should also contain excellent photos and a solid listing description. and your shop should be in tip - top shape. discount of monte cristo : offering discounts everybody loves a bargain. that ’ s why discount offers like sales, promo codes, and targeted offers are so effective! sure, offering discounts means that each transaction is less profitable. but you conduct way more transactions ( ideally ), so it ’ s a win - win — for your customer and you. you may want to offer a discount before a big shopping holiday like christmas or valentine ’ s day, to celebrate your shop ’ s anniversary, or just because! etsy lets you set up discount offers for your etsy shop in the form of free shipping ( assuming that you don ’ t already offer this ), a percentage off, or, in the case of promo codes and targeted offers, a fixed amount off. and discount offers can apply to specific items or to the customer ’ s entire order from your shop. finally, you can also stipulate that customers purchase a certain number of items or spend a certain amount of money to qualify for the discount. running a sale here ’ s how you set up a sale : 1. click the marketing link in the left side of the shop manager and click sales and discounts in the pane that appears to open the sales and discounts page ( see figure 14 - 6 ). source : etsy. com figure 14 - 6 : the sales and discounts page. 2. click the set up link in the run a sale section of the sales and discount page. the set up a sale dialog box opens with the customize your sale page displayed. ( see figure 14 - 7. ) 3. open the discount amount drop - down list box and choose one of the following : free shipping : if you choose this option, you can also optionally select the domestic addresses only check box that appears to limit the sale to domestic orders. percentage off : if you select this option, type the percentage off in the box that appears. 4. to limit your sale to a certain country, click the where is this offer valid? drop - down list box and choose the country you want. 5. optionally, in the order minimum section, select the number of items or order total option button and indicate the minimum value required in the box that appears. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 7 : set up a sale. 6. use the sale duration calendar boxes to set a start date and end date. note : sales can run for up to 30 days. 7. optionally, in the terms and conditions box, type additional information you want to convey to customers about your sale. 8. in the sale name box, type a name for your sale. then click continue. note : the sale name is for your use only. your customers won ’ t see it. 9. in the included listings page, open the left drop - down list box and choose multiple listings. alternatively, choose a shop section to apply the sale to items in that section only. the included listings page displays all the listings in your sale. ( see figure 14 - 8. ) 10. if you want to exclude a listing from the sale, click its x button. if you have a lot of listings, you can use the search box to locate the one ( s ) you want to exclude. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 8 : choose the listings for your sale. 11. click review and confirm. then review your settings and click confirm and create sale. etsy notifies you that your sale is scheduled. it also provides you with an opportunity to share sale details via social media. ( we talk more about linking etsy to your social media accounts later in this chapter. ) 12. optionally, click the facebook, pinterest, and / or twitter button to share details about your sale on social media ; then click got it. creating a promo code a promo code is a special series of letters and / or numbers that a customer can enter during the checkout process to receive a special discount or free shipping. to create a promo code, follow these steps : 1. on the sales and discounts page ( refer to figure 14 - 6 ), in the create a promo code box, click set up to open the create a promo code dialog box. ( see figure 14 - 9. ) sale mate : publicizing sales running sales in your etsy shop is a great way to move merchandise — but only if people know about it. of course, one way to publicize your sale is through social media, and we talk more about that later in this chapter. but there are other things you can do, too, like the following : talk up your sale in the etsy community. ( chapter 18 covers the etsy community. ) share the news on any blogs you maintain. upload a special “ sale ” graphic as your shop banner and / or shop icon and post a notice about your sale in your shop announcement. ( see chapter 6 for details on shop banners, icons, and announcements. ) include the word “ sale! ” in your item title and description, and add a tag that says sale, too. ( you find out about item titles and descriptions, as well as tags, in chapter 11. ) source : etsy. com figure 14 - 9 : create a promo code. 2. click the down arrow at the right of the discount amount drop - down list box and choose the type of discount you want to offer : free shipping : if you choose this option, optionally select the domestic addresses only check box that appears to limit the promo code to domestic orders. percentage off : if you select this option, type a discount amount in the box that appears. fixed amount off : if you choose this option, type a dollar amount in the box that appears. 3. optionally, in the order minimum section, select the number of items or order total option button and indicate the minimum value required in the box that appears. 4. use the duration calendar boxes to set a start date and ( optionally ) end date for your promo code. note : promo codes can run forever or until you deactivate them. ( we show you how to do that in a minute — see “ deactivating a promo code or targeted offer. ” ) 5. in the custom promo code box, type the code you want to use. this is what customers will enter at checkout to receive your discount. it must contain letters and numbers only — with no punctuation or spaces. ( note : after you use a code, you can never use it again. so, you know, no pressure coming up with solid codes for the rest of your life. ) 6. click review and confirm ; then review your settings and click confirm and create code. etsy notifies you that your promo code is scheduled. it also provides you with an opportunity to share sale details via social media, and to copy a url for your promo code to send to buyers directly. ( we talk more about linking etsy to your social media accounts later in this chapter, in “ social studies : promoting your etsy shop and listings on social media. ” ) 7. optionally, click the facebook, pinterest, and / or twitter button to share details about your sale on social media, and / or copy the url and save it somewhere for future promotional use. then click got it. consider including promo codes in any orders you ship to drive repeat sales. you can also share promo codes with buyers in messages, in your shop announcement, or anywhere else you interact with your customers. sending targeted offers targeted offers are just like promo codes, but they ’ re for shoppers who you know are into your shop, because they ’ ve recently a ) favorited a listing in your shop, b ) bought an item from your shop, and / or c ) almost bought an item from your shop — that is, they added an item to their cart but abandoned it. also, targeted offers run until you deactivate them ( see “ deactivating a promo code or targeted offer, ” later in this chapter ). to create a targeted offer, follow these steps : 1. on the sales and discounts page ( refer to figure 14 - 6 ), in the automatically send offers to interested shoppers box, click the set up link in the thank you, abandoned cart, or favorited item box. the set up targeted offers dialog box opens. 2. select the thank you, abandoned cart, and / or favorited item check box to send targeted offers to each group of buyers. the dialog box expands to display settings for each group. ( see figure 14 - 10. ) 3. in the thank you box, open the discount amount drop - down list box and choose the type of discount you want to offer : free shipping : if you choose this option, optionally select the domestic addresses only check box that appears to limit the targeted offer to domestic orders. percentage off : if you select this option, choose a discount amount from the drop - down list box that appears. fixed amount off : if you choose this option, choose a dollar amount from the drop - down list box that appears. 4. in the promo code box, type the code you want to use. when setting up a special “ thank you ” offer for customers who ’ ve bought from you before — but not for buyers who have favorited your shop or abandoned a cart containing one of your items — you can set a minimum purchase requirement. you can also extend the offer to customers who have purchased from you within the last 90 days. 5. optionally, click the set an order minimum link, choose number of items or order total from the drop - down list box that appears, and indicate the minimum amount. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 10 : targeted offer settings. 6. if you want, select the include customers from the last 90 days check box. 7. to extend an offer to people who have abandoned one of your items in their shopping cart, repeat steps 3 and 4 in the abandoned cart box. 8. to extend an offer to people who have favorited an item, repeat steps 3 and 4 in the favorited item box. 9. click the create x offers button. 10. etsy notifies you that your targeted offer is good to go. click got it. managing your discount offers you manage your sales, promo codes, and targeted offers from the same page where you created them : the sales and discounts page. this is where you track their overall and individual performance, and where you edit ( in the case of a sale ), end, and deactivate them. ( see figure 14 - 11. ) source : etsy. com figure 14 - 11 : managing sales and discounts. editing a sale or ending a sale early to edit the listings to which a sale applies, follow these steps : 1. on the sales and discounts page ( refer to figure 14 - 11 ), under offer details and stats, locate the sale whose listings you want to edit. then click its details link to open a page like the one in figure 14 - 12. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 12 : edit or end a sale. 2. click the edit included listings button to open a page that looks like the one you used to create the sale ( refer to figure 14 - 8 ). 3. do one of the following : click a listing ’ s x button to exclude it from the sale. use the add multiple listings drop - down list box to add listings to the sale. 4. click save changes. to end the sale, simply click the end sale early button at the bottom of the page shown in figure 14 - 12. deactivating a promo code or targeted offer to deactivate a promo code, follow these steps : 1. in the overall performance section of the sales and discounts page ( refer to figure 14 - 11 ), under offer details and stats, locate the promo code you want to deactivate and click its details link to open a page like the one in figure 14 - 13. 2. click the deactivate code button ( near the bottom of the page ). source : etsy. com figure 14 - 13 : deactivate a promo code. you deactivate a targeted offer the same way you do a promo code. however, you also have the option to stop sending offers. that way, the code remains active for anyone who has already received the offer, but the offer won ’ t be extended to anyone else. social studies : promoting your etsy shop and listings on social media everybody knows that social media — sites like facebook, pinterest, twitter, instagram, and tiktok — is a super marketing tool. but it ’ s particularly super for small businesses ( like your etsy shop ) because it provides unparalleled reach at an incredible price : free. you can use social media to connect with customers and build brand awareness by sharing promo codes and links to new listings, revealing products in process or announcing new offerings, celebrating shop milestones, and more. to help you capitalize on the power of social media, etsy allows you to link your shop directly to your facebook, pinterest, twitter, and instagram accounts ( though not tiktok — at least not at the time of this writing ). that way, you can quickly and easily post to one or more of these accounts simultaneously, without ever leaving etsy. connecting your etsy shop to these social media feeds doesn ’ t just help etsy shoppers connect with you on social media ; it also helps your social media followers connect with you on etsy. don ’ t link your etsy shop to your personal social media accounts. instead, create special business pages on each platform for your etsy shop, and link to those. why? two reasons : one, to maintain your privacy ; and two, because business pages include tools to track performance, engagement, reach, and other stats, which can help you gauge how effective your social media efforts really are and to pivot as needed. to find out how to create business pages, see each social media platform ’ s help information. oh, and because we ’ re on the subject of social media, we urge you to follow etsy ’ s social media channels. you can find them here : facebook : etsy, etsy success twitter : @ etsy good time : tiktok and etsy just because etsy doesn ’ t let you link your shop to tiktok ( which is a video - only platform ) doesn ’ t mean you can ’ t promote your etsy shop there. indeed, you can, and probably should — especially if your shop is geared toward the gen z crowd ( born between 1997 and 2012 ). etsy help has some great resources on using tiktok, located here : https : / / www. etsy. com / seller - handbook / article / 1026011778660? ref = handbook. instagram : @ etsy, @ etsysuccess pinterest : etsy, etsy success tiktok : @ etsy youtube : etsy, etsy success connecting your etsy shop to facebook, pinterest, and twitter connecting your etsy shop to your facebook, pinterest, and twitter accounts is easy. here, we show you how to connect to your twitter account, but the same basic steps apply for facebook and pinterest : 1. click the marketing link in the left side of the shop manager and click social media in the pane that appears to open the social media page ( see figure 14 - 14 ). source : etsy. com figure 14 - 14 : the social media page. 2. click the social accounts link in the upper - right corner of the page. 3. in the social account settings dialog box ( see figure 14 - 15 ), click the connect to twitter link. 4. when prompted, enter your twitter account ’ s username and password, and click authorize app. etsy links your shop to your twitter page. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 15 : the social account settings. you don ’ t have to do anything special to connect to your instagram account to share from etsy ; it ’ s set up by default. but you do need to have the etsy seller app installed on your phone to be able to post on instagram from within etsy. ( we explain why in the following section. ) posting on social media from within etsy etsy assumes that you ’ ll usually want to post about new listings, sales or promotions, recent favorites — stuff like that. so it offers special tools to help you perform each of these operations. for the sake of example, in the following steps, we set up a post about one of those new promos we show you how to create in “ discount of monte cristo : offering discounts, ” earlier in this chapter : 1. click the create post button in the upper - right corner of the social media page to open the create post dialog box. ( see figure 14 - 16. ) 2. on the left side of the dialog box, under recommended, click the my latest sale option button. then click the next button. the create post dialog box changes to display various images that relate to promotions and suggestions for promotion - oriented caption text. ( see figure 14 - 17. ) note : if you had elected to post about a new listing or a recent favorite, the dialog box would contain different options. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 16 : choose the type of content you want to post. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 17 : the create post dialog box for sale - related posts. 3. choose an image for your post from the choices provided, or click the blank image ( with a box containing a plus sign ) to open a file - selection dialog box and choose the image you want to use. 4. type a caption for your post in the add a caption box or copy the suggested caption below the box and paste it into the box. 5. click the next button. 6. in the choose networks page, select all networks to post to facebook, pinterest, twitter, and instagram at the same time, or select the check box next to each social media site you want to post to. then click the post and continuebutton. 7. the finishing up page confirms that your post was successfully uploaded. click the done button. note : if you elected to post to instagram, you still need to complete one more step : responding to the push notification you receive on your mobile device from your etsy seller app. maybe you want to upload a video showcasing your favorite knitting technique, a photo of your home studio, or some other content that does not pertain to new listings, shop milestones, sales or promotions, or recent favorites. here ’ s how : 1. click the create post button in the upper - right corner of the social media page to open the create post dialog box. ( refer to figure 14 - 16. ) 2. click create post from scratch and then click next. 3. type a caption for your post in the what do you want to say? box ( see figure 14 - 18 ). 4. click the add an image button to open a file - selection dialog box, and choose the image or video you want to post ; then click next. 5. choose the social media network ( s ) you want to post to. 6. click post and continue ; then click done. if you elected to post to instagram, don ’ t forget to finish the operation from within the etsy seller app on your mobile device. you can also share individual listings on social media from within the listings page in the shop manager. to do so, click the manage this listing button on the listing you want to share and choose share from the menu that appears. then choose the social media site where you want to share your listing, and follow the prompts. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 18 : the create post page. social media best practices anybody can use social media, but not everyone can use it well. and unfortunately, when you use social media poorly, the result isn ’ t just neutral — it can actually be negative. so as you begin using social media to promote your etsy shop, brand, and listings, keep these best practices in mind : pick the right platform : different social media sites call for different types of posts. for instance, twitter is great for maintaining conversations with followers, whereas instagram works well for more visual posts. and different channels cater to different groups. facebook skews older, while tiktok is geared more toward the youngs. as for pinterest, it ’ s used primarily by women aged 25 – 54 for inspo, or inspiration and motivation, purposes ( think : meal ideas, home decor suggestions, wedding tips, and whatnot ). mix it up : don ’ t just post shop announcements, or new listings, or promos, and don ’ t just post photos, or text, or videos. instead, post a variety of content, on a variety of media. post on the regular : don ’ t send a flurry of posts one week and then send nothing at all the next. develop a regular and predictable schedule. at least at first, posting two or three times a week should suffice. but if you build a big following, you ’ ll want to post more often. use hashtags : a hashtag is a word or phrase preceded by a hash sign ( # ). using hashtags on social media makes it easier for people who don ’ t follow you to find your posts. for example, if you sell yarn, you could use hashtags like # yarn and # knitting in your post so that people who search for those hashtags will find your post and maybe even follow. you can also include etsy - related tags, like # etsy, # etsyseller, or # etsysale. but avoid using too many hashtags. the sweet spot is between 5 and 10 ( - ish ) hashtags per post. respond to comments : if someone takes the time and trouble to comment on your post, the least you can do is respond! if someone asks a question, answer it. and if they mention a recent purchase from your shop, thank them. you can also comment on posts by other people in your target market to connect with potential buyers. just don ’ t be spammy or desperate when you do. keep it real and organic. follow other relevant accounts : if you run across a social media account for an etsy store you just love, follow it. there ’ s a good chance that shop ’ s owner will follow you back. this is a great way to build your audience and possibly develop collaborations ( where you tag or feature their stuff on your social media channels, and they tag or feature yours on theirs ) and maybe even friendships! camera ready : sharing videos with explore people love seeing what etsy sellers are up to, which is why etsy created explore. with explore, you can use the etsy seller app on your mobile device to create or upload videos about what ’ s new with your etsy biz. etsy shoppers can then view your videos on the etsy shopping app. what kinds of videos are we talking about here? anything goes, really, as long as it relates to your etsy shop in some way, and it ’ s between 2 seconds and 3 minutes long. for example, you can use explore to share a sneak peek of a new item in your shop, announce an upcoming sale, showcase your process, demonstrate an unusual technique, capture one of your items being used “ in the wild, ” introduce the people who help create or curate your items, or just show your golden retriever snoozing away in your studio. you could even share a silly meme or skit. ( note : unlike listing videos, these videos can include sound. ) yeah, we know. we said “ anything goes. ” but we didn ’ t mean anything goes. for example, you may get away with a swear or two, but pervasive profanity is a no - no. also verboten : videos that harp on social, political, or religious topics ; complain about etsy, its partners, its members, or related services ; or discuss other marketplaces or brands that do not factor into items in your etsy store. videos that run afoul of these rules may be yanked from the platform. to capture and post a video using explore, follow these steps : 1. in the etsy seller app, tap the explore button in the bottom - right corner of any screen. 2. on the explore screen, tap the posts tab and then tap create new post. ( see figure 14 - 19. ) the first time you create a video in explore, you may not see a posts tab. instead, you may see some introductory screens that explain how to create a video. in that case, step through those screens to begin creating your first video. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 19 : the posts tab in explore. 3. in the new explore post screen ( see figure 14 - 20 ), tap post type, tap the type of video you want to make, and tap save. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 20 : the new explore post screen. 4. optionally, tap add listings, choose any listing ( s ) you want to feature in your video, and tap save. 5. tap caption, enter a caption and any hashtags you want to include with your video, and tap save. 6. tap add video. 7. in the add video screen, shown in figure 14 - 21, tap one of the following options : record video : this option activates the camera function of your mobile device. record a video clip as normal ; then tap use video to use the clip in your explore video, or tap retake and try again. upload video : this option displays your camera ’ s photo album screen. ( note : you may have to give the etsy seller app permission to access this screen first. ) tap the video clip you want to use. a thumbnail for the clip you created or selected appears in the video clips section of the add video screen. 8. optionally, record or upload more clips to include in your video. if you record or upload multiple clips, you can rearrange them as needed. to do so, tap the reorder button that appears next to the upload video button and drag the clips to the desired order. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 21 : the add video screen. 9. tap continue to editing. 10. use the tools in the editor screen ( see figure 14 - 22 ) to crop, transform, and adjust the video, and to add text if desired. then click the right arrow in the top - right corner of the screen. 11. tap the preview button to preview your video. 12. if you like what you see, tap submit post. otherwise, tap go back and make any necessary changes. etsy posts your video to explore. after etsy posts your video, you can tap it in the posts tab in explore to enable comments for the post and to view performance - related stats — things like the number of comments, total reach, total likes, revenue, listing visits, and shop visits resulting from your post. ( see figure 14 - 23. ) you can also delete your video from in here in case you decide you hate it. to do so, scroll all the way to the button in the upper - right corner of the screen ( the one with three dots ), tap delete, and then tap delete again. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 22 : the editor screen. source : etsy. com figure 14 - 23 : view video stats and delete the video here. chapter 15 you ’ ve been served : providing exceptional customer service in this chapter using etsy ’ s internal messaging system communicating with customers handling a bungled transaction running your own etsy shop is a little like being the wizard of oz : you preside over your own emerald city from behind a curtain of sorts, working the wheels and levers of your online craft business while hidden from view. but if you truly want to be a great and powerful etsy seller, you must pull back the curtain and interact with your ozmites — er, customers. it ’ s not enough to craft or curate gorgeous items and list them in your shop ; you must also provide excellent customer service — before, during, and after each sale. that ’ s what this chapter is about. sliding into your dms : accessing etsy messages etsy provides its own internal messaging system, etsy messages, so that members can communicate with each other safely and securely. when you receive a new message, etsy notifies you by displaying an orange circle over the shop manager and the your account links in the header bar of every etsy marketplace page. ( look ahead to figure 15 - 1. ) accessing, reading, and replying to messages to access your messages, click the your account link and choose messages from the menu that appears. ( see figure 15 - 1. ) alternatively, click the messages link on the left side of the shop manager screen. either way, the shop manager messages page opens. ( see figure 15 - 2. ) click a message to read it and optionally type a reply in the box provided. ( see figure 15 - 3. ) source : etsy. com figure 15 - 1 : choose messages in the your account menu. source : etsy. com figure 15 - 2 : the messages pane in the shop manager. source : etsy. com figure 15 - 3 : click a message to read and reply to it. if you use the etsy seller app, you ’ ll also receive a notification on your mobile device when you receive a message. you can then access the message from within the app by tapping the messages button along the bottom of the screen. sending a new message sending a new message is easy. just click the compose button in the upper - right corner of the shop manager messages page. then, in the new message dialog box that appears ( see figure 15 - 4 ), type the recipient ’ s etsy user name, enter a subject, type your message, and click send. ( note : you can send messages to any other etsy member — not just someone who has purchased something from your etsy shop — as long as you know their username. ) another way to send a new message is from another etsy seller ’ s shop or about page. to do so, click the contact button ( the one with an envelope on it ) and type your message in the pane that appears. receiving email notifications to make sure you don ’ t miss a missive, you can also set up etsy to email you anytime someone sends you a message on the site. here ’ s how : 1. click the your account link and choose account settings. 2. in the shop manager account settings page, click the emails tab. ( see figure 15 - 5. ) source : etsy. com figure 15 - 4 : the new message dialog box. source : etsy. com figure 15 - 5 : the emails tab in the shop manager account settings page. 3. in the your notifications section, under email me when, select the someone sends me a message check box ; then click save settings. set up a separate email address for use with your etsy account. that way, you can keep all your shop - related email messages in one place. that said, we recommend against using email to communicate with other etsy members. ( we explain why a little later in this chapter. ) let ’ s talk : communicating with buyers communication is the single most critical factor for ensuring the success of your etsy business. after your fabulous inventory catches your buyers ’ attention, your prompt and friendly communication will keep them coming back for more ( not to mention recommending your shop to their friends ). thanking the buyer in chapter 13, we talk about the importance of thanking your buyer after a sale. the easiest way to do this is to compose a message that is sent automatically to buyers immediately after they purchase something from your shop. consider using this message to thank the buyer and convey other critical info. see chapter 13 for details. answering customer questions even if you upload ten spectacular photos of your item and compose a listing description with tolstoyan detail, prospective buyers will still message you with questions about your piece. queries may range from “ how big is it? ” to “ what does it smell like? ” to “ how fuzzy is it? ” to “ um, what is that thing? ” to “ can you make this in puce? ” whatever the question, it ’ s critical that you answer it — the sooner, the better. unless you ’ re stranded on a desert island or are in labor, try to respond to all questions within 24 hours. quickly replying to messages containing queries from potential buyers does more than just help them determine whether your item is right for them ; it reassures them that you ’ re a seller they can count on. it increases your chances of earning a speedy replies badge and of attaining star seller status. ( more on both of these in a minute. ) when communicating with customers, keep things simple. providing too much information may confuse them. focus on communicating the information that will be most helpful to the customer. for example, if a customer asks how quickly you can put an item in the post, simply respond by telling them “ tomorrow. ” don ’ t say, “ well, i ’ d do it today, but my dog just ate my cactus, and i have to take her to the vet, so it will have to be tomorrow. ” tmi. confirming shipping and seeking feedback when you ship an item, etsy messages the buyer on your behalf to share delivery and tracking information. this message is pretty impersonal, though, so it ’ s nice to drop the buyer a line yourself to let them know their package is on their way. because we ’ re on the topic of shipping, do try to ship your item as quickly as is feasibly possible — definitely within the time frame you ’ ve established in your shop policies and shipping profile. in addition to preventing your buyer from expiring from anticipation, shipping quickly can earn you a smooth shipping badge and improve your chances of achieving star seller status. save me! using saved replies you ’ ll probably find that you receive lots of similar messages on etsy — custom - order requests or questions about personalization options, sizing, shipping, and so on. instead of typing the same reply over and over, you can use saved replies. if you refer to figure 15 - 3, you can see a series of saved reply buttons below the reply box. you can click any of these buttons to populate the reply box with the saved reply. or you can click the all saved replies link below the buttons to select from additional saved replies or compose a custom one. additionally, you can click the coupons link next to the all saved replies link to quickly add a promo code to your message. ( for more on promo codes, see chapter 14. ) while you ’ re at it, consider asking the buyer to submit a review about the transaction. reviews aren ’ t mandatory, of course, but with luck, your buyer will leave one anyway. reviews help other buyers feel safe shopping on etsy, and that ’ s good for everyone. ( note : anything less than a five - star review will negatively affect your chances of earning a rave reviews badge and realizing star seller status. ) merit badge : earning etsy badges for superior service etsy sellers who offer unparalleled customer service can earn etsy badges, which are displayed on their shop ’ s main page. at present, etsy awards the following merit badges to sellers who have met the stated criteria in the previous three months : smooth shipping : do you ship orders within your stated processing time at least 95 percent of the time? and do you use etsy shipping labels or spring for tracking? if so, congratulations! you ’ re eligible for etsy ’ s smooth shipping badge. speedy replies : if you respond to the first message from a buyer within 24 hours at least 95 percent of the time, pat yourself on the back. you ’ re the proud recipient of a speedy replies badge! rave reviews : if everybody ( or at least 95 percent of etsy buyers ) really likes you, and they leave you a five - star rating, you ’ re entitled to a rave reviews badge! in addition to these badges, there ’ s also the star seller badge. it ’ s a little harder to earn. star sellers a ) ship on time, b ) reply to messages quickly, c ) have an average review rating of 4. 8 stars or higher, and d ) meet various sales criteria. earning a star seller badge is a big deal. a star seller badge conveys to buyers that your reputation is impeccable and that they can feel confident purchasing from your shop. this is why star sellers generally attract more listing views and complete more sales than non – star sellers. bungle fever : handling a botched transaction and other tough issues despite our best efforts, transactions occasionally go to heck in a handbasket. maybe an item gets lost in the mail or is squished en route. maybe it ’ s the wrong size or color. or maybe the buyer just changes their mind. no matter what went wrong, buyers who experience a problem with a transaction are encouraged to contact the seller via etsy message to try to resolve it. what you do next depends on what type of problem you ’ re dealing with : a missing item, a damaged item, the wrong item, or an item the buyer has decided they just don ’ t want. it also depends on your shop ’ s policies with regard to returns, exchanges, and refunds. when communicating with a buyer about a problem with their order or shipment, use etsy message rather than email. this ensures that etsy receives a record of your communications. dealing with a lost item although the united states post office might claim to be deterred by “ neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night, ” it is an unfortunate fact that the usps and other shipping companies sometimes fail to deliver. when a package goes the way of amelia earhart, your first step is to track it. to do so, open the orders & shipping page in shop manager and locate the order in the completed tab. then click the track package link ( the one with a zillion digits ) to see the package ’ s status and location. ( note : the buyer can also track the package on their end. ) of course, the ability to check the tracking assumes that you sprang for tracking when you shipped your package. if the package has indeed gone awol, and you sent it using an etsy shipping label via usps, you can report it missing after seven business days here :. if you ’ re lucky, the www. usps. com / help / missing - mail. htm usps will find the package. if not, well, at least you did your part to improve the system. suppose your package - tracking investigation reveals that the package was indeed delivered. in that case, ask your buyer to check with their neighbors. the package may have been delivered to one of them by mistake. refunding lost or damaged items through etsy ’ s purchase protection program if, after all your sleuthing, you determine that the package really has been lost in transit, fear not. etsy offers a purchase protection program for just these types of occasions. assuming that the order total ran less than $ 250 ( including shipping and taxes ), you used an etsy shipping label to send the item, you can prove that the item was indeed lost, and your shop is in good standing, etsy will refund the buyer, and you ’ ll keep your earnings, too. for items that run more than $ 250 a pop, we strongly suggest you opt for insurance when you ship them. etsy ’ s purchase protection program also applies when an item is damaged in transit … but only once per calendar year. in other words, as an etsy seller, you get one mulligan a year for items damaged in transit. if it happens more than once, it ’ ll be you — not etsy — who refunds your buyer ’ s money ( assuming you ’ ve set up your shop policies to allow for refunds ). to take advantage of etsy ’ s purchase protection program, your buyer must open a case and request a refund. after they do so, it ’ s up to the buyer to prove the item was indeed lost or damaged, and it ’ s up to etsy to decide whether to refund the buyer. in other words, it ’ s pretty much out of your hands. even if etsy determines that a transaction does not qualify for the purchase protection program, it typically resolves and closes the case on your behalf. note : etsy also assists in the resolution of any other cases levied against you by disgruntled buyers. handling returns and issuing refunds when it comes to refunds, different sellers have different policies. some sellers are happy to issue full refunds for any reason ; other sellers allow buyers to exchange for other goods in their shop ; and still others hold a firm “ all sales are final ” stance. ( of course, if you sent the buyer the wrong item, it ’ s up to you to provide a refund no matter what. it ’ s just the right thing to do. ) whatever position you adopt on this matter, be certain that your shop policies are marked accordingly. flip to chapter 8 for more on setting up shop policies. if you want the buyer to return the item before you issue a refund, and your shop policy is to cover postage for returns, you can use etsy to create the return label and send it to your buyer via etsy messages. here ’ s how : 1. click the orders & shipping link on the left side of the shop manager. 2. click the completed tab. 3. click the order for which you want to create a return label. the item ’ s order page opens. ( see figure 15 - 6. ) source : etsy. com figure 15 - 6 : the item ’ s order page. 4. click the create return label button. you see a page similar to the one you filled out when you shipped the item to the buyer. ( refer to figure 13 - 11 in chapter 13. ) 5. specify the package type, weight, length, width, height, and delivery service, and then click create return label. 6. optionally, include a message for the buyer in the screen that appears ; then click send. as for issuing a refund, here ’ s how that works : 1. in the item ’ s order page, open the more actions menu and choose refund. ( see figure 15 - 7. ) for help opening the item ’ s order page, see the preceding numbered list. source : etsy. com figure 15 - 7 : choose refund from the more actions menu. 2. in the issue a refund page that appears ( see figure 15 - 8 ), click the reason for issuing a refund drop - down list and choose an option from the list. 3. under is the buyer returning any items to you, click yes or no. 4. optionally, type a message to the buyer. 5. to issue a full refund, select the issue a full refund check box ; otherwise, enter the desired amounts in the appropriate fields in the amount to refund column. source : etsy. com figure 15 - 8 : issue a refund. 6. click the review refund button and then click submit to confirm the refund. etsy refunds the buyer ’ s money and deducts the amount from your shop payment account ’ s available balance or charges it to your credit card. ( any processing fees associated with your card will be refunded proportionally. you ’ ll see an adjusted transaction fee on your statement. ) canceling an order in certain circumstances, you might need to cancel an order. for example, you might cancel an order if you don ’ t have the inventory to fulfill it. you could also cancel an order if the buyer changes their mind about the order immediately after placing it ( shop policies permitting ). when you cancel an order, etsy refunds the buyer and your transaction fee. to cancel an order, follow these steps : 1. in the item ’ s order page, open the more actions menu and choose cancel. ( refer to figure 15 - 7, shown in the previous section. ) 2. in the cancel an order page ( see figure 15 - 9 ), open the reason for cancelling drop - down list and choose the reason for the cancellation. source : etsy. com figure 15 - 9 : cancel a transaction. 3. if necessary, under is the buyer returning any items to you, click yes or no. 4. optionally, type a message for the buyer. 5. click cancel order. you can also cancel an order using the etsy seller app. tap the orders button on the bottom of the screen, locate the order you want to cancel, and tap it to open it. then tap the more button in the top - right corner ( it has three dots on it ), choose cancel order, and follow the steps outlined in this section to cancel the order. responding to a negative review as you know, buyers can leave reviews about transactions with etsy sellers. assuming that you deliver what you promise and treat your buyers kindly, these reviews will likely be overwhelmingly positive. every so often, however, you may wind up with less - than - stellar feedback. if you receive a negative review, send a message to the buyer to see whether you can resolve whatever matter is miffing them ( and thereby convince them to delete or edit their review ). the easiest way to do send the buyer a message is to locate the order in the completed tab of the orders & shipping page in shop manager and click the message button. ( it ’ s the one with an envelope on it. ) if reaching out to the buyer doesn ’ t inspire the buyer to delete or edit their negative review, etsy gives you one chance to publicly respond to any review with a rating of three or fewer stars. note : if you go this route, the buyer will no longer be allowed to edit their rating or review, and you won ’ t be able to edit your response, either. dealing with a difficult customer honestly, nearly everyone on etsy is great. really! but every so often, you ’ re bound to run into someone who, well, isn ’ t. whether someone on etsy is rude, demanding, or simply a pill, keep these points in mind : polish your policies. clear, concise shop policies can go a long way toward heading off problems down the road. ( for guidance on creating your shop ’ s policies, see chapter 8. ) don ’ t take it personally. if, after receiving your beautiful baubles, your buyer doesn ’ t appreciate their magnificence, that ’ s on them, not you. be professional. however tempting it may be to uncork on a difficult buyer, don ’ t. keep all communications firm, polite, and to the point. oh, and resist the temptation to air your grievances on the etsy forums. everything you write there is visible to anyone on the internet. plus, calling out a buyer by name violates etsy policy and can lead to your expulsion from the site. extend the olive branch. most buyers aren ’ t evil. they just want to feel like you ’ re willing to work with them to achieve a happy transaction. kindly communicate to them that you ’ ll do everything possible to make that happen — and then do it. if you feel you ’ ve done all you can to rectify a problem with a buyer but they ’ re still displeased, consider cutting your losses and refunding their money. better to get a problem buyer out of your hair than to contort yourself pretzel - style trying to make them happy. chapter 16 business as usual : managing your etsy shop in this chapter tracking shop data and payment activity working with deposits, recordkeeping, and tax issues choosing a business structure going on hiatus and closing your etsy shop if you ’ re a fan of chinese food, you ’ re probably familiar with the pu pu platter — you know, the appetizer that features a little bit of everything. this chapter is the literary equivalent. it covers an assortment of topics that relate to managing your etsy shop. as you see in chapter 7, you manage your shop from … well, shop manager. chapter 7 shows you how to use shop manager to create and administer your listings, orders, and promotional activities. in this chapter, you find out how to employ shop manager to track and analyze shop data and to oversee your shop ’ s finances. this chapter also gets into more general info about running your shop — things like keeping good records, collecting and paying taxes, growing your thriving shop into a legit biz, and more. on top of all the etsy - specific info, we ’ ve tried to cram several books ’ worth of business information into this one wee chapter. we strongly urge you to explore these matters more deeply, and a good place to start is starting a business all - in - one for dummies, by eric tyson, bob nelson, et al. ( wiley ), which packs content from six whole business - related books into one. room and dashboard : exploring the shop manager dashboard when you open shop manager ( by clicking the shop manager link that appears along the top of any etsy marketplace page ), the shop manager dashboard appears. if all you ’ re after is a quick look at how your shop is doing, the shop manager dashboard is just the ticket. it conveys several key pieces of information, all accessible at a glance ( see figure 16 - 1 ) : total views, visits, orders, and revenue open orders, in order of urgency a shop checklist, with suggested actions to drive business to your shop links to recommended articles a list of your active, expired, and sold - out listings recent shop activity, like someone favoriting a listing in your shop ( or the shop itself ) and purchases made in your shop the home page on the etsy seller app also features a dashboard, which contains similar info to what you see in figure 16 - 1. source : etsy. com figure 16 - 1 : view the shop manager dashboard. one track mind : tracking and analyzing shop stats statistics. they ’ re not just for baseball fanatics and nate silver ; they ’ re also for etsy shop owners like you. etsy tracks of tons of stats on your shop and displays them in your shop manager stats page. ( see figure 16 - 2. ) you access this page by clicking the stats link on the left side of the shop manager page. the shop manager stats page tracks the number of visitors to your shop, the number of orders your shop has received, your shop ’ s conversion rate, and your shop ’ s revenue. this page also reveals where people who visited your shop came from — another page on etsy, the etsy search function, etsy marketing and seo efforts, etsy ads, social media, and so on. this information can help you assess how effective your marketing efforts are both on the site and off it. source : etsy. com figure 16 - 2 : the shop manager stats page. for a deeper dive into a particular traffic source, you can click its link. for example, clicking the etsy search link opens a page like the one shown in figure 16 - 3, which divulges how many shoppers used etsy search to find your shop, which listings they visited the most, and what search terms they used. source : etsy. com figure 16 - 3 : taking a deeper dive into etsy stats. when you scroll to the bottom of the shop manager stats page, you see stats on how each of your listings has performed, including how many views each listing has received, how many people have favorited each listing, how many orders are associated with each listing, and how much revenue each listing has generated. ( see figure 16 - 4. ) you can also view listing stats on the shop manager listings page. just toggle the stats button on the right side of the page to the on position. oh, and to view stats on the etsy seller app, tap the insights button along the bottom of the app screen. source : etsy. com figure 16 - 4 : tracking listing performance. high finance : viewing your etsy financials you ’ re not the only baby who needs a new pair of shoes. the folks at etsy have their own financial obligations. as we mention in chapter 1, etsy stays afloat by charging sellers a listing fee ( currently 20¢ ) for each item listed on the site. in addition, etsy collects a commission from the seller for each item sold. finally, if you use etsy shipping labels or etsy ads ( or both ), etsy charges fees for those, too. etsy keeps a running tab of these fees on the payment account page. ( see figure 16 - 5. ) you access this page by clicking the finances link on the left side of the shop manager page and choosing payment account from the list of options that appears. if you ’ re set up for auto - billing ( which you are by default ), etsy collects payment for these fees automatically — first by deducting them from any sales you ’ ve incurred and then by charging them to the credit card you have on file. we like this, because it prevents us from falling behind and incurring late fees, and generally cheesing etsy off. we don ’ t recommend it, but you can turn off auto - billing ( by opening shop manager, clicking the finances link, clicking payment settings, choosing the billing tab, and toggling the autobilling setting off ). if you opt out of auto - billing, and your balance is negative at the end of the month, etsy will email you your amount due on the first of the next month. you can pay your amount due between the 1st and 15th of the month. source : etsy. com figure 16 - 5 : view payment account details. you can also access your payment account info from the etsy seller app. to do so, tap the settings button in the upper - right corner of the app ’ s home screen. then tap payment account. in addition to viewing your payment activity, you can take a gander at your monthly statement. to do so, click the finances link in the shop manager page and choose monthly statement. the monthly statement page looks a lot like the activity summary section of the payment account page, but with the addition of a generate csv button. we talk more about this button in “ using a spreadsheet, ” later in this chapter, when we explain how to use spreadsheet software for bookkeeping purposes. party down! using third - party apps to manage your etsy business etsy offers lots of tools to help you manage your shop. but they ’ re not the only ones. there ’ s a whole host of third - party tools you can use to run your etsy biz. what ’ s more, several of these tools are designed specifically to play well with etsy. you access these tools by clicking the integrations link on the left side of the shop manager page. it ’ s payday! changing your deposit schedule when someone buys something from your etsy shop, etsy deposits the funds from that transaction in your etsy payment account. then, by default, etsy transfers funds in your etsy payment account to your bank account on a weekly basis. ( this assumes, of course, that you ’ ve already set up etsy to connect to your bank account, which we cover in chapter 6. ) if you ’ d prefer to receive your funds more quickly, you can instruct etsy to deposit any funds you accumulate in your etsy payment account on a daily basis. or you can prolong the deposit schedule to once every two weeks or once every month. it ’ s really up to you. to change your deposit schedule, follow these steps : 1. click the finances link on the left side of the main shop manager page and choose payment settings. the payment settings page opens with the payment methods tab displayed. 2. open the deposit schedule drop - down list and choose the schedule you prefer. ( see figure 16 - 6. ) source : etsy. com figure 16 - 6 : change your deposit schedule. to use the etsy seller app to change your deposit schedule, tap the settings button on the app ’ s home screen and tap payment settings. then tap the deposit schedule drop - down list and choose your preferred schedule. separation anxiety : separating your personal and business finances especially if you plan to grow your etsy business into a full - time operation, do yourself a favor : open a business bank account for your etsy shop, preferably with a dedicated credit or debit card. then use that account to handle all expenses related to your etsy shop. that way, if your etsy shop rakes in enough revenue to catch the eye of the tax man ( or tax person ), you won ’ t have to cull your business transactions from your personal ones at tax time. ( more on taxes in a minute. ) plus, if you ever need to verify your income — say, if you ’ re taking out a loan to make a major business purchase — you ’ ll be able to provide the lending authority with everything it needs. oh, and depending on your location, your bank may require you to have a business license to open a business account. for information about business license requirements in your area, visit www. sba. gov / localresources. recording artist : keeping accurate records yes, we know. record keeping is for squares. but if you want to stay on top your etsy business, you ’ ll want to be scrupulous about your financial record keeping. fortunately, etsy handles a lot of this for you. as you ’ ve seen, various finance - related pages within shop manager enable you to monitor your sales, revenue, etsy fees, and whatnot. keeping track of your other shop expenses, however — the ones that don ’ t have to do with etsy fees — is another matter. that ’ s on you. recording your shop expenses is super important. for one thing, it helps you decide how much you should charge for items in your shop. ( we talk about price setting in chapter 9. ) for another, you can ’ t assess how profitable your shop is ( or isn ’ t ) without an accurate accounting of your expenses. if your etsy shop turns enough of a profit that the tax person comes looking for a cut, you can deduct certain expenses from your taxable income to offset your tax burden. ( more on taxes in a minute. ) the art of deduction : deducting expenses from your taxes here are a few examples of the types of expenses you can deduct from your taxes ( for a complete list, hit up a qualified accountant ) : cost of goods sold ( cogs ) : this is the cost of the materials you purchased to craft your inventory. for example, if you make jewelry, your cogs might include the price you paid for beads, thread, findings, and so on. the cogs may also include what you shelled out for pretty packaging and shipping costs. equipment : did you buy a kiln to fire the ceramic bowls that you list in your etsy shop? or a laptop to help run your etsy business? or a printer to print invoices for your etsy customers? if so, you can deduct the cost of these items from your taxable income. office expenses : these purchases include pens and pencils, paper, letterhead, printer supplies, and so on. home office : if you use a portion of your home to run your etsy shop — maybe you devote a special room to crafting the pieces that you sell or for handling administrative tasks — you can claim a home - office deduction. or if you rent studio space, you can deduct that instead. just be aware that these types of deductions may pique the interest of the irs. to steer clear of trouble, be sure that whatever room you claim for this deduction is really used for business purposes only. selling expenses : these expenses include etsy fees, banking fees, and the like. advertising fees : say that you printed some snazzy business cards for your etsy shop. these and other marketing expenses are fair game to claim. ( chapter 16 provides a general introduction to marketing materials. ) mileage : do you regularly drive to your local craft store to stock up on supplies for your etsy shop? or to the post office to ship items to etsy buyers? if so, you can deduct your mileage for those outings. the current rate, as of this writing, is 58. 5¢ per mile. any tolls or parking fees that you incur en route are also deductible. if you want to take this deduction, though, we recommend you keep a little notebook in your car so that you can jot down where you went and on what day in real time in case the irs decides to audit you. legal or professional services : if you follow our advice and hire an accountant, you can deduct their fee. ditto for any fees associated with other professionals who serve your business — attorneys, graphic designers, and the like. honestly, record keeping isn ’ t so hard — if you make it a regular part of your day - to - day etsy shop operations. as we mention earlier, monitoring your sales, revenue, and etsy fees is as easy as opening your shop manager dashboard or the payment account page. and keeping track of your expenses is mainly about scribbling the amount of each business purchase into a paper ledger or entering it into a simple spreadsheet — although if your shop really takes off, you ’ ll want to consider using a more robust tool like quickbooks. ( we talk about spreadsheets and quickbooks next. ) hold on to all receipts for business purchases — even the little ones. ( all those paper clips add up! ) oh, and keep them together all in one place. an accordion file works well because you can separate your receipts and other important business - related documents — think bank statements and such — by month or by category. using a spreadsheet one easy way to keep track of your shop ’ s expenses is to use a spreadsheet. we figure you know what a spreadsheet is, but in case you don ’ t ( no judgment ), it ’ s just a type of computer program in which you can enter and store data in columns and rows, and run different types of calculations on that data. the most popular spreadsheet programs are microsoft excel and google sheets. here ’ s what you do : create a spreadsheet for your etsy shop, dedicate one column in that spreadsheet to shop expenses, and enter the amount of each expense into a cell in that column. ( a cell is a box where a row intersects with a column. ) then, when you need to add up all those expenses ( for example, for tax purposes ), you use the spreadsheet program ’ s function. so easy. sum you can also download the information in the shop manager monthly statement page to your hard drive. this information is stored in a special type of file called a comma - separated value ( csv ) file. after you download the csv file containing your monthly statement info, you can open it in your spreadsheet program. to download the csv file, click the finances link on the left side of the shop manager page and then click monthly statement. then, in the monthly statement page, click the download csv button. by default, your computer will save the file in its downloads folder ; we suggest you create a folder specifically for your etsy shop and move the downloaded csv file there. using quickbooks for etsy if your etsy business is really going gangbusters, making a slew of sales and raking in reams of revenue, you may want to level up on your record keeping by using a dedicated accounting program — specifically, quickbooks for etsy. quickbooks for etsy is a cloud - based version of quickbooks, which is a type of accounting software. ( cloud - based just means the software lives on the internet instead of on your hard drive. ) with quickbooks for etsy, available for sellers in the u. s. and the uk, you can automatically sync your etsy shop transactions and fees with quickbooks. you can also export other sales and expenses into quickbooks for etsy — for example, from square, from paypal, and even from your business bank account and credit card. and with the quickbooks for etsy mobile app, you can take snapshots of and store business - related receipts and track mileage. but wait, there ' s more! quickbooks for etsy automatically categorizes your expenses to help you maximize your business deductions and calculates your quarterly estimated taxes. ( more on quarterly estimated taxes in a minute. ) to sign up quickbooks for etsy, click the finances link on the left side of the shop manager page and choose quickbooks for etsy. then click the buy now button under the plan that best suits your needs and follow the prompts. ( at the time of this writing, quickbooks for etsy is half off for three months. ) income - ing! paying taxes on shop income a world with no taxes would be lovely indeed — except for the fact that it would also be a world with no roads, bridges, public school teachers, libraries, firefighters, air traffic controllers, clean water, or snowplows. indeed, without taxes, there would be no internet — and, by extension, no etsy! after all it was american taxpayers who bankrolled the u. s. government ’ s advanced research projects agency ( arpa ), which, in 1969, created the network that eventually became the internet. our point — and we do have one — is that as an etsy shop owner, you need to be aware of your possible tax obligations. whether you ’ re obligated to pay taxes for your etsy income, and if so, how much, depends on a few key factors : whether you run your etsy shop as a hobby ( that is, you do it for fun but don ’ t expect to earn much money from it ) or as a proper business how much money your etsy shop pulls in perfect 1099 : filing your 1099 - k if you operate your etsy shop in the u. s., and your shop ’ s sales exceed a certain amount ( currently $ 600 ), etsy is required by federal law to generate a 1099 - k form on your behalf. you can then download this 1099 from the legal and tax information page in shop manager so that you can submit it when you file your taxes. ( to access this page, click the finance link on the left side of the shop manager page and choose legal and tax information. ) by the way, this page is also where you enter your tax id and indicate what type of seller you are — an individual ( that is, a sole proprietor ) or a business. ( more on these designations in the “ structured settlement : choosing a business structure ” section of this chapter. ) while we ’ re on the topic of 1099s, if you forked over more than $ 600 to a particular person for services rendered — for example, your attorney or graphic designer — you must send that person a 1099 form if you intend to deduct the expense from your taxes. ask your tax consultant for more information. the country or state where you operate your etsy shop the kind of business structure you ’ ve adopted for your shop ( more on that in a minute ) we ’ re not licensed accountants or lawyers, nor do we play them on tv. so, we really can ’ t offer you much advice when it comes to taxes. our main objective here is to make you aware of the possibility that you may need to pay taxes. to find out more, we strongly urge you to seek the advice of a tax expert. if you live in the u. s., consider using turbotax for etsy. it ’ ll help you maximize your tax deductions and ensure that you ’ re in compliance with local and federal tax laws. speaking of taxes, what about sales taxes? that is, are you responsible for collecting sales tax when someone buys something for your etsy shop? you used to be, but not anymore. nowadays, etsy automatically collects and remits sales tax on your behalf. ( this assertion assumes that you live in the u. s. if not, you ’ ll want to check etsy ’ s help info to see whether you ’ re obligated to collect these types of taxes yourself. ) structured settlement : choosing a business structure if you ’ re starting your etsy shop as a hobby, you probably haven ’ t given much thought to the structure of your etsy business. it ’ s just you, creating or curating stuff, and putting it up for sale. but if your etsy shop grows into a full - time operation — or if you want it to — you ’ ll need to decide what type of business structure is best for you. the structure you choose affects both your personal liability if your business is sued and any taxes you ’ ll have to pay. when it comes to business structures, at least here in the united states, you have a few main options : sole proprietorship : if you ’ re just starting out with your etsy business, odds are you ’ re running a sole proprietorship, sort of by default. that is, you own your business outright and you ’ re solely responsible for all decisions and debts that pertain to it. this type of business is by far the easiest to start, but it ’ s also the riskiest type to run, because you ’ ll be held personally accountable if something goes wrong. for example, if someone using your product becomes sick or injured, that person could sue you, personally, placing your personal assets ( including any assets that you hold jointly with a spouse ) at risk. you ’ ll also be personally accountable for any debt the business assumes. general partnership : a general partnership is like a sole proprietorship, but with two or more owners. in a general partnership, the owners divide the expenses and responsibilities associated with running the business, and they split any profits — perhaps equally, perhaps not. limited partnership : a limited partnership is like a general partnership, except there ’ s at least one owner ( called a limited partner ) who contributes funds and shares in profits, but plays no role in the operation of the business. also, whereas the general partner ( the person who actually runs the business ) assumes unlimited liability, the limited partner is liable only up to the amount of their investment. corporation : a corporation is a legal entity all its own, separate from its founders ( you ), managers, and employees, and owned by its shareholders ( again, you, along with anyone else you decide to bring into the fold ). when you operate a business as a corporation, your personal assets are protected if the company is sued, and you are not personally liable for any debts the business incurs. there are two main types of corporations : c - corporations and s - corporations. c - corporations provide the most financial protection to shareholders and offer other advantages, but many small businesses go the s - corporation route because they ’ re cheaper to start and easier to maintain. limited liability company ( llc ) : a popular choice for many business owners, a limited liability company ( llc ) is a sort of hybrid between a partnership and a corporation. in addition to limiting your liability for business debt, an llc allows you to choose whether you want to be treated as a partnership or as a corporation, depending on which has the lower tax burden. so, what type of business structure is right for you? that ’ s an excellent question — and one that you want to direct to a lawyer or accountant. also, be sure to seek the help of a lawyer or accountant when it comes to actually setting up your company, because the precise steps for doing so differ depending on where you live. depending on your location, you may be required to obtain a business license to operate your etsy shop in an aboveboard manner. for information about business license requirements in your area, visit. www. sba. gov / localresources quarter pounder with cheese : paying quarterly taxes if you a ) live in the united states, b ) run your business as a sole proprietor, and c ) move enough merch to make loads of dough, you can look forward to the distinct pleasure of paying estimated income taxes not once, not twice, not three times, but four times per year — that is, quarterly — on april 15, june 15, september 15, and january 15 ( or, if those dates fall on a weekend or holiday, on the next business day ). estimating how much you owe each quarter can be tricky. one approach is to simply look at your prior - year tax return to see how much you paid in taxes, divide that number by four, and send that amount for each quarterly installment. ( of course, that strategy won ’ t do if you expect your income to be vastly different from one year to the next. ) our advice? don ’ t take our advice. seek the guidance of a qualified accountant. if you opt to integrate your etsy shop ’ s financials with quickbooks and turbotax, the process of calculating and filing your quarterly taxes becomes much easier. ( just sayin ’. ) but if you prefer to file your quarterly taxes “ from scratch ” ( meaning without the assistance of quickbooks and turbotax ), you can download the necessary form ( called a 1040 - es ) from the irs website, here : www. irs. gov / pub / irs - pdf / f1040es. pdf. you also need to download a similar form from your state government ’ s site. then fill out the forms, cut your checks, and send them to the appropriate office. ( check the forms for details. ) alternatively, you can pay your quarterly estimated taxes online using the electronic federal tax payment system ( eftps ) : www. eftps. gov / eftps. ( eftps is for federal taxes only ; check with your state to see what resources are available for paying your state taxes online. ) you ’ ll also have to file an annual tax return and make up the difference on your annual taxes if your quarterly payments fell short. that happens on april 15 ( or on the next business day if april 15 falls on a weekend or holiday ). again, using quickbooks and turbotax can facilitate this ; or, you can file a schedule c “ profit or loss from business ” form as well as a schedule se “ self - employment tax ” form ( because income from your etsy shop is considered “ self - employment income ” ) on your own. the artist is out : switching to vacation mode it ’ s a well - known fact that vacations are as good for you as brussels sprouts. vacations do more than help you rest and relieve stress. they promote creativity — which is pretty important when the success of your etsy shop depends a great deal on your ability to create! of course, the key to getting the most out of any vacation is being able to put aside your work while you ’ re away. to facilitate this, you can switch your etsy shop to vacation mode. when your shop is in vacation mode, your listings don ’ t appear in search results or on your shop page, and anyone who attempts to message you in your absence will receive an auto reply containing whatever text that you specify. you don ’ t have to actually be “ on vacation ” to put your shop in vacation mode. you can use this feature anytime you need a break from your etsy shop. it ’ s not a bad idea to put your shop in vacation mode a day or two before you leave. that way, you have time to handle all your orders before you depart. you might also leave your shop in vacation mode for a day or two after you get back so that you can ease into things. to put your shop in vacation mode, follow these steps : 1. click the settings link in the left pane of the shop manager page and select options. the shop options page opens. 2. click the vacation mode tab. the vacation mode page opens. ( see figure 16 - 7. ) source : etsy. com figure 16 - 7 : put your shop in vacation mode any time you need a break. 3. select the on your shop is on vacation option button under vacation mode. 4. type the desired text — how long you ’ ll be away, when you ’ ll be back, and so on — in the vacation announcement box. this text replaces your shop announcement. 5. in the messages auto - reply field, type the message you want prospective customers to receive if they message you while you ’ re away. 6. click the save button. etsy puts your shop in vacation mode ( see figure 16 - 8 ) and informs anyone who visits your shop that you ’ re taking a short break ( see figure 16 - 9 ). source : etsy. com figure 16 - 8 : etsy confirms your shop is in vacation mode. source : etsy. com figure 16 - 9 : etsy informs shop visitors that you ’ re taking a break. when you put your shop in vacation mode, it ’ s not a bad idea to design a special “ on vacation ” banner and temporarily display it in your shop. you may even use this banner to inform shoppers when you plan to reopen. ( see chapter 6 to find out how. ) speaking of reopening, when you ’ re ready to get back to business, you can reactivate your shop. simply select the off your shop is active option button on the vacation mode page. ( refer to figure 16 - 7. ) hanging it up : closing your etsy shop if — heaven forbid — you decide that running an etsy shop just isn ’ t for you, you can close your etsy shop ( assuming you ’ ve closed all unresolved cases and paid any overdue fees ). when you close your shop, your shop and listings will no longer appear on etsy. if someone tries to view your shop, they will be redirected to your profile. anyone who attempts to view a listing from your shop will see a “ page not found ” error. to close your shop, follow these steps : 1. click the settings link on the left side of the shop manager page and select options. the shop options page opens. 2. click the close shop tab. the close your shop page opens. 3. click the select a reason drop - down list and choose the reason that best explains why you are closing your shop. options include etsy isn ’ t right for me, personal reasons, business reasons, and something else. after you make a selection, you see additional options to further explain your reason for leaving. 4. choose the option that best explains your reason for leaving etsy. 5. click the close shop button. etsy prompts you to confirm the closure. 6. click the close shop button again. etsy closes your shop. ( note that it may take 30 minutes or so for your request to be processed. ) your etsy account will now be for buying from other sellers only. if — hallelujah! — you later change your mind and want to reopen your shop, you can easily do so. follow these steps : 1. open the your account menu that appears along the top of any etsy marketplace page and choose account settings. the account page opens. 2. click your closed shop. the reopen your shop page opens. 3. click the reopen shop button. etsy reopens your shop. ( again, it may be a half - hour or so before your request is processed. ) chapter 17 growing your etsy business in this chapter bringing on helpers and production partners for your etsy shop leveling up with etsy plus building a custom shop website translating your shop ’ s contents for international customers taking your etsy show wherever you go maybe you ’ re content to run your etsy shop as a hobby or a side hustle. lots of etsy sellers are. but maybe — just maybe — you ’ d like to grow your etsy business to be your sole source of income. that ’ s what this chapter is about : taking your etsy shop to the next level. howdy, partner : disclosing shop members and production partners if you ’ re like most etsy sellers, you ’ re probably a one - person band. you design and make ( or curate ) every product in your shop, post every listing, process every order, and ship every package. this may work great — until taylor swift posts an insta of herself wearing one of your baubles and drives 50 million of her followers to your shop. when ( not if ) your etsy shop takes off, you may find yourself experiencing mixed feelings. on the one hand, your newfound success may enable you to truly earn a living as an etsy seller ( thanks for everything, tay - tay! ). on the other hand, you ’ re likely drowning in incoming orders — unable to maintain your inventory of current products ( let alone develop new ones ) or provide the level of customer service you ’ d like ( thanks for nothing, tay - tay! ). one thing ’ s for sure, though : you ’ re going to need some help. that ’ s where shop members and production partners come in. adding a shop member one way to get help is to hire a part - time, full - time, or seasonal employee. this person can act as your assistant, customer - service rep, marketer, photographer, shipper, or all of the above. or you can bring someone on board to help you design and produce or curate goodies for your shop. etsy ’ s all for you getting help running your shop. they just ask that you disclose any helpers — etsy calls them shop members — in your shop ’ s about section. here ’ s what you do : 1. in shop manager, click the settings link on the left side of the screen and choose about your shop. 2. in the members tab, click the add shop member link. ( see figure 17 - 1. ) the add shop member dialog box opens in the members tab. ( see figure 17 - 2. ) source : etsy. com figure 17 - 1 : the shop members page. source : etsy. com figure 17 - 2 : the add shop member dialog box. 3. click the add photo button and select a photo of the shop member from the standard file - selection dialog box that appears. 4. type the shop member ’ s name in the name box. 5. open the role drop - down list and select the appropriate role ( s ). options include owner, assistant, creator, customer service, designer, maker, marketer, photographer, and shipper, or you can create a custom role. 6. type a brief description of the new shop member in the bio box. then click save. the new shop member appears on your shop members page and in your etsy shop about page. disclosing a production partner maybe hiring a few employees isn ’ t gonna cut it. maybe that shout - out from taylor swift means you need even more help. or maybe you want to offer new types of products but you need help manufacturing them. in that case, you ’ ll want to think about finding a production partner. a production partner is a company or person who manufactures products based on your original designs but is not a member of your shop. some examples of production partners are those who offer printing, sewing, casting, engraving, or some other type of service. before you seek out a production partner, you ’ ll want to complete a couple preparatory steps : take stock. make sure your business, concept, and initial designs are really ready for production. ask yourself : do you already make ( or are you thinking of making ) a product that may lend itself to manufacture by an outside party? do you know what processes and machinery are needed to meet your manufacturing needs? do you have the technical skills to communicate your designs to a manufacturer? have you decided what types of materials to use for your designs? what do you expect to produce in terms of quantity? do you have the cash flow to pay a manufacturer upfront? build a budget. figure out whether your profit margin can absorb manufacturing - related costs. next up : research. your goal here is to pinpoint prospective producers so that you can pair up with the perfect production partner. this partner may work locally, or you may ferret them out online. hey, whatever works! don ’ t just “ swipe right ” on the first manufacturer you find. contact several to see which ones can best meet your needs and offer the best terms for your project. also, before you and a prospective partner say “ i do, ” have them do a sample run of your product. and, to be 100 percent sure they ’ re the right fit, it doesn ’ t hurt to conduct an on - site visit ( assuming they ’ re local ). ultimately, you can choose any production partner you like — if they meet certain ethical criteria. first, they must be in compliance with all applicable laws, including safety, labor, and employment laws. in addition, your production partner should not employ child labor or youth labor not employ involuntary labor not engage in discriminatory practices provide humane working conditions use sustainable materials to reduce environmental impact as with shop members, etsy asks that you disclose any production partners you use. this information will appear on your shop ’ s about page as well as in listings for any items the production partner helped to create. first, though, you need to build a production partner profile for each of your production partners. here ’ s how : 1. in shop manager, click the settings link on the left side of the screen and choose production partners. the production partners page opens. ( see figure 17 - 3. ) source : etsy. com figure 17 - 3 : the production partners page in shop manager. 2. click the add a new production partner button. the add a new production partner dialog box opens. ( see figure 17 - 4. ) 3. enter your production partner ’ s name and location, and say a little bit about them. 4. indicate why you are working with this production partner, what your role is in the design process, and what your partner ’ s role is in the production process. then click save partner. etsy saves the production partner profile. if you work with multiple production partners, you should create a profile for each one. to add this production partner profile to an existing item listing, follow these steps : 1. on the shop manager page, click the listings link in the left pane. the listings page appears. source : etsy. com figure 17 - 4 : adding a new production partner. 2. select the check box for each listing to which you want to apply the production partner profile. 3. click the editing options button and choose change production partners ( see figure 17 - 5 ). 4. in the update production partners for x listings dialog box, select the check box next to the production partner you want to add, and click update. ( see figure 17 - 6. ) etsy adds the production partner profile to the selected listing ( s ). adding a production partner to a new listing is even easier. as you create the listing, simply select the check box for the production partner in the production partners section of the add a new listing page. source : etsy. com figure 17 - 5 : click the editing options button and choose change production partners. source : etsy. com figure 17 - 6 : the update production partners for x listings dialog box. plus one : leveling up with etsy plus every etsy seller has access to a standard set of free tools to build and manage their etsy shop. honestly, these tools work fine when you ’ re just starting out, but if you ’ re looking to take your etsy shop to the next level, you may find them limiting. enter etsy plus. etsy plus is a subscription - based service that provides extra features to help you jump - start your shop ’ s growth. etsy plus offers a suite of tools to improve your shop, but subscribing to etsy plus won ’ t affect how your listings appear in etsy search listings. the purpose of some etsy plus extras is to help you build and express your shop ’ s brand. for example, at present, when you subscribe to etsy plus, you receive a 10 percent discount on personalized packaging materials from boxup and a 30 percent discount on bespoke promotional provisions like business cards and signage from moo. and hover, an internet domain registration service, knocks off 50 percent for your first year when you set up a custom web address for your shop ( for example, www. yourshopname. com ). in addition to reinforcing your brand, this custom address makes it easier for customers to find your shop online. ( note : if you already have a custom url for your shop through another provider, you can use it with etsy plus, but you won ’ t receive the discount. contact your provider for details on redirecting your existing address to your etsy shop. ) other etsy plus extras are meant to spruce up your shop. for example, with etsy plus, rather than using a mini shop banner or a big shop banner ( refer to chapter 6 for more on these ), you can choose to display a carousel shop banner or a collage shop banner. with a carousel banner, you upload as many as four different images, which shoppers can scroll through. in contrast, with a collage banner, which can also contain up to four images, you assemble the images in a static design, where they ’ re all visible simultaneously. etsy plus also offers additional shop layout options to enable you to highlight specific shop listings or sections. here ’ s one etsy plus feature we really like : if someone who visits your shop is just dying to buy an item that ’ s currently sold out, they can sign up to be notified when it ’ s back in stock. ( this is called a restock request. ) then, when you relist the item, etsy automatically alerts them via email. you don ’ t have to do a thing! you ’ re probably wondering, “ how much does all this amazeballs - ness cost? ” at present, subscribing to etsy plus will put you back $ 10 a month. but get this : when you subscribe, in addition to all the aforementioned goodies, you also receive $ 20 in credit — $ 15 for new listings ( which would cover the costs of 75 listings in all ) and $ 5 for etsy ads — every month. so basically, if you do the math, you don ’ t pay etsy to subscribe to etsy plus ; etsy pays you. ( note : these credits expire at the end of each billing cycle, so use ’ em or lose ’ em. ) subscribing to etsy plus subscribing to etsy plus is easy. just click the settings link in shop manager and choose your subscription. then, in the page that appears ( see figure 17 - 7 ), click the upgrade button and then click confirm. ( if you change your mind about etsy plus, you can switch back to the etsy standard plan. ) accessing your discounts after you subscribe to etsy plus, you access your discounts from the same page where you subscribed. to review, you access this page by clicking the settings link in shop manager and choosing your subscription. then click the deals and perks link in the upper - right corner of the subscriptions page. source : etsy. com figure 17 - 7 : subscribing to etsy plus. sprucing up your shop you apply a carousel or collage banner or a different shop layout from the edit shop page. to access the page, in shop manager, under sales channels, click the pencil icon next to your shop name. then use the available settings in the banner and featured items sections to change your shop ’ s appearance. enabling restock requests you can enable restock requests on new and existing listings. to enable restock requests for a new listing, create the new listing as normal ( see chapter 12 ) but, in the inventory and pricing section of the add a new listing page, select yes for the restock request option that appears when you subscribe to etsy plus. to enable restock requests for existing listings, follow these steps : 1. in shop manager, click the listings link in the left pane. the listings page appears. 2. select the check box for each listing for which you want to enable restock requests. 3. click the editing options button and choose edit restock request. 4. select yes to toggle restock requests on. then click apply. sold out items appear on your shop ’ s sold items page. you cannot manually mark an item as sold out. items appear as sold out only when their inventory is depleted through sales. pattern - cake, pattern - cake : building a custom shop with pattern as your etsy shop thrives, you may find yourself wanting to expand beyond the etsy marketplace. enter pattern. pattern is a service provided through etsy that enables you to set up your own custom e - commerce website. this isn ’ t just any custom e - commerce website, though — it ’ s one that integrates with your etsy shop. in fact, you stock your pattern website with listings from your etsy shop ( although you can create pattern - only or etsy - only listings ), and you manage your pattern site using etsy ’ s shop manager. there are lots of good reasons to use pattern. with pattern, you can build an e - commerce site that reflects your brand — customizing its general look and feel, setting up a bespoke web address, adding a gallery page to showcase your products however you like, creating a special events page, and even maintaining a shop blog. you can also create a custom email address for your pattern shop, set up shop announcements, and integrate your shop with services like mailchimp, google ads, facebook, and pinterest. etsy currently allows shop owners to test out pattern for 30 days free o ’ charge. after that, it ’ s $ 15 a month. to get started using pattern, click the want your own website link under sales channels on the left side of the shop manager page and follow the prompts. going global : translating your shop for a global market maybe your goal is worldwide domination. etsy can ’ t help you with that per se. but what it can do is allow you to translate your shop ’ s contents into other languages — specifically dutch, french, german, italian, japanese, polish, portuguese, russian, and spanish — so that you can cater to a more international market. one important caveat : you must have achieved at least some level of fluency in whatever language you select, because it ’ ll be up to you to translate listings and shop info into that language, and because you ’ ll need to be able to communicate effectively with customers who speak that language. to translate your shop into another language, follow these steps : 1. on the left side of the shop manager page, click settings, and choose languages and translations from the menu that appears. the languages and translations page opens. 2. click the start translating your shop button. a manage shop languages dialog box opens. ( see figure 17 - 8. ) source : etsy. com figure 17 - 8 : the manage shop languages dialog box. 3. toggle the button for the language into which you want to translate your etsy shop to the on position. then click save changes. the languages and translations page shows the existing text on various shop pages and sections, with text boxes for you to type in your translations. ( see figure 17 - 9. ) 4. type your translations in the text boxes. source : etsy. com figure 17 - 9 : translate your shop text. 5. to translate your listings, click the view listings button in the listing translation. the listings page opens. 6. click the listing you want to translate. 7. scroll down the listing page to the newly added translations section ( see figure 17 - 10 ), type your listing translation, and click publish. when you set up your shop for translation, a translations section appears in the add a new listing page, too, so you can add your translations during the listing - creation process. source : etsy. com figure 17 - 10 : translate a listing. ( art ) fair and square : using square for in - person sales you ’ re not limited to conducting etsy business online. you can do it in real life, too — for example, at an art fair or your local farmers ’ market. how? by signing up for square — a nifty mobile service that facilitates the secure collection of credit - card payments ( and other forms, including cash ) with your smartphone or tablet through the use of a credit - card reader — and syncing it with your etsy shop. ( if you already have a square account, you can sync that account with etsy rather than creating a new one. ) when you use square to peddle items listed in your etsy shop in person, you can sync your etsy shop inventory to reflect the sale. ( we talk more about this in a minute. ) square then deposits the funds from in - person transactions in your etsy account alongside monies from online sales. it ’ s super slick. ( note : at present, this works only for etsy sellers who live in the u. s., the uk, australia, or canada, but etsy hopes to add more locations soon. ) any in - person sales you make using a square account connected to your etsy shop will be reflected in your etsy stats and contribute to your total sales count ( shown on your shop ’ s main page ). first, you need to sign up for square. you initiate this process from shop manager by clicking the sell in person link under sales channels in the pane on the left. then, in the page that opens, click the sign up for square button. you ’ ll be asked to provide info like your email address, a password, your location, whether you run your shop as an individual or a business, what type of business you run, your personal details, how quickly you want to be paid, your bank info, the type of credit card reader you want, and more. so, provide it. after that ’ s done, square prompts you to allow etsy to access your square account. ( see figure 17 - 11. ) click the allow button to open the square page in shop manager ( see figure 17 - 12 ), and then click the sync your listings button to sync your shop with square. sync your listings anytime you venture out to sell in real life to ensure that square has the most recent shop info possible. before you can use square on your mobile device, you need to a ) have received your card reader, and b ) downloaded the square point of sale ( pos ) app. with that done, you ’ re ready to make in - person sales. here ’ s how : 1. launch the square app on your mobile device. in this example, we ’ re using square on our phone. 2. tap the checkout button along the bottom of any square screen. source : etsy. com figure 17 - 11 : connect with square. source : etsy. com figure 17 - 12 : the square page in shop manager. 3. tap the library button at the top of the screen. ( see figure 17 - 13. ) 4. tap the etsy listing for which you are making a sale. then, if necessary, make any additional selections — for example, specify the item size or color. finally, click add. repeat this step for any additional items your buyer wants to purchase. 5. tap review sale. 6. to apply a discount, tap add discount in the current sale screen and choose the discount you want to apply. if this is the first time you ’ ve attempted to apply a discount to an in - person sale, square prompts you to create the discount. tap go to items, tap discounts, and tap create discount. then type a name for the discount, choose the amount type ( a fixed or variable cash or percentage discount ), indicate the amount, and tap save. to create additional discounts, tap the more button along the bottom of any square screen, and tap items. then tap discounts and tap create discount. finally, enter a name, amount type, and amount, and tap save. source : etsy. com figure 17 - 13 : make an in - person sale. 7. click the charge button. 8. specify the payment type — you can choose square ( for credit cards ), cash, gift card, or others — and follow the prompts. 9. if the buyer wants a receipt, tap email or text message and ask them to enter their contact info. otherwise, tap no receipt. that ’ s it! you ’ re done. square completes the transaction and updates your etsy shop inventory to reflect the sale. just so you know, square does levy a small fee for each transaction, which ranges from 2. 6 percent + 10 cents per transaction ( for card - present payments ), to 3. 5 percent + 15 cents ( for card - not - present payments ). but signing up is free, as long as you stick with the free tier. overall, not terrible! and anyway, being able to sell your items in person is a great way to grow your business, so it ’ s more than worth it. when you sell in - person through square, etsy does not collect and remit sales tax on your behalf. it ’ s up to you to collect the correct amount of sales tax ( which differs depending on where you ’ re selling ) and to remit it according to local regulations. part 5 community services : exploring the etsy community in this part … see what the etsy community ’ s all about and how you can join. get the scoop on the latest etsy news. find out how to get help on etsy when you need it. chapter 18 community building : joining the etsy community in this chapter reaching out on etsy forums exploring etsy teams minding your manners in the etsy community anyone who has spent more than 30 seconds on etsy knows it ’ s a bang - up place to buy and sell gorgeous handmade, vintage, and otherwise interesting items. but etsy is more than just an amazing online marketplace ; it ’ s also a vibrant community of fascinating, creative people. on etsy, connections are created, friendships are formed, love matches are made, and lives are enriched. in this chapter, you discover how you can participate in this lively etsy community. any etsy member can view etsy forums and teams. however, only etsy sellers can actively participate in them. free forum : using etsy forums a forum is a place where the public comes together to have a discussion, as in ancient roman cities across that great empire. similarly, etsy forums serve as meeting places for etsy members. in essence, etsy forums are public message boards where members can discuss all manner of topics. back to school : “ enrolling ” in etsy u etsy ’ s community tools, including its forums and teams, are invaluable learning resources. but they ’ re not the only ones. etsy offers yet another learning tool, called etsy u. etsy u hosts regular online classes to help shop owners grow their business and connect with other creative types on the site. for more on etsy u, go to https : / / etsyu. etsy. com /. etsy offers several forums — currently a dozen in all. these include forums to share etsy shop announcements ( announcements ) and general forums for etsy sellers ( getting started on etsy and etsy success ). there are also more focused forums for sellers, like the creative process, managing your shop, photography tips, all things finance, marketing your business, providing great customer service, all about shipping, and shop critiques forums. finally, there ’ s a technical issues forum, which you can use to research or discuss any bugs or glitches you experience on etsy. etsy forums are not meant to serve as complaint desks. if you want to air a grievance, you need to do it somewhere else. accessing etsy forums to access an etsy forum, follow these steps : 1. scroll down to the footer on any etsy marketplace page and click forums in the sell category of links. 2. in the etsy forums page, open the etsy forums menu and choose the forum you want to visit. ( see figure 18 - 1. ) source : etsy. com figure 18 - 1 : the etsy forums. if you want to dip your toe in the water but you ’ re not sure what forum you want to explore, try clicking one of the forum discussions featured on the main etsy forums page. viewing, sharing, and replying to etsy forum posts the posts in each etsy forum are divided into discussions. ( figure 18 - 2 shows discussions in the photography tips forum. ) you can read, share, and reply to any discussion you want. here ’ s how : source : etsy. com figure 18 - 2 : an etsy forum. 1. click a discussion that interests you. a page opens, showing the post that started the discussion, along with any responses to that post ( see figure 18 - 3 ). 2. to share a discussion, click the share button, choose where you want to share it ( for example, on twitter or facebook, via email, and so on ), and follow the prompts. source : etsy. com figure 18 - 3 : an etsy discussion. 3. to reply to a post in the discussion, do one of the following ( see figure 18 - 4 ) : if the post to which you want to reply is the one that started the discussion, click its reply button or scroll to the bottom of the page. if the post to which you want to reply is not the original post, click its reply button. 4. type your response in the reply box. you can apply text formatting to your reply text, add a link, and more. ( to access additional options, click the more button next to the insert / edit link button. ) 5. click reply. if you replied to the first post in the discussion, your reply will appear at the bottom of the discussion. if you replied to a post within the discussion, your reply will appear below that post. source : etsy. com figure 18 - 4 : reply to a post. before you reply to a discussion in an etsy forum or start a new discussion of your own ( see the next section ), be sure your post doesn ’ t violate etsy etiquette ( discussed in “ miss manners : respecting community, ” later in this chapter ). if you participate in an existing etsy forum discussion or you create a new one, you can revisit it later. simply click the your account button in the upper - right corner of any etsy community page and choose my profile. then, in your etsy community profile page, check the latest activity section for more recent posts or click view all to see earlier ones. starting a new discussion in addition to replying to posts in forum discussions that others have started, you can start your own new discussion. here ’ s the drill : 1. open the etsy forum in which you want to start a new discussion. 2. click the start a discussion button. 3. in the subject box in the new discussion page ( see figure 18 - 5 ), type a clear, concise, and descriptive title for your discussion. source : etsy. com figure 18 - 5 : create a new discussion in an etsy forum. as you type, etsy will suggest existing forum discussions that may relate to your topic. if one of these suggested discussions covers the same ground as yours, select it and add your post to that discussion instead of starting a new one. alternatively, use the search box at the top of the forum page to search for existing discussions ahead of time. 4. type your post in the body box. again, you can apply text formatting to your text, add a link, and more. 5. optionally, select the email me when someone replies check box. 6. click post. etsy creates a new discussion, with your post at the top. if you click the forum ’ s link at the top of the page, you ’ ll see your discussion listed in the forum. when you start a new discussion, be sure to do it in the correct forum. for example, don ’ t start a discussion asking for photography advice in the all things finance forum. keeping track of etsy forum discussions if you find an etsy forum post that ’ s particularly interesting, you can bookmark it. doing so enables you to locate that post again later. to bookmark a post, click the down - arrow button in the upper - right corner of the post and choose bookmark from the menu that appears. in addition to bookmarking posts, you can subscribe to discussions. you can then set up etsy to alert you anytime someone adds to it. ( more on this in a second. ) to subscribe to a discussion, open the options menu next to the top post in the discussion and choose subscribe. ( note : you can subscribe to a forum, too. in this case, you open the options menu at the top of the forum and choose subscribe. ) to view discussions and forums you ’ ve subscribed to as well as posts you ’ ve bookmarked, click the your account button in the top - right corner of any etsy community page and choose my subscriptions. then click the my subscriptions or my bookmarks link. ( see figure 18 - 6. ) source : etsy. com figure 18 - 6 : view your forum subscriptions and bookmarks. as promised, you set up etsy to notify you of new developments in any discussions or forums you subscribe to by clicking the notification settings tab and scrolling down to the email notifications settings. among these settings are various options for forum - related notifications. etsy has some great help resources to help you get the most out of its forums. here ’ s a good place to start : https : / / help. etsy. com / hc / en - us / articles / 115015570367 -. how - to - use - the - etsy - forums? segment = selling go, team! exploring etsy teams etsy teams act a lot like etsy forums. people start discussions and others add their two cents. but they ’ re different in that etsy teams pertain to a specific theme, such as a particular craft or skill, a certain geographical location, a specific business practice like marketing or accounting. a team may also cater to a specific group of members. also, you must join an etsy team to fully participate in its discussions. in other words, although nonmembers may be able to view certain team discussions ( if they ’ re “ public ” discussions rather than “ private ” ones ), they will not be able to reply to posts in those discussions or start new discussions of their own. each etsy team has a captain ( usually the person who started the team ), who can appoint other members as “ leaders. ” the team captain and team leaders are responsible for administering the team — approving membership applications ( some teams are open to any and all etsy members ; others require that you apply ), moderating the team ’ s discussion forum, and so on. the following sections show you how to search for and join an etsy team. searching for an etsy team there are literally thousands of etsy teams, so chances are there ’ s one for you. for example, you could join a team based on the type of items you sell, your particular interests, or your geographic location. to find a team, follow these steps : 1. scroll down to the footer on any etsy marketplace page and click teams in the sell category of links. alternatively, if you ’ re in shop manager, click the community & help link on the left side of the page and choose teams from the menu that appears. 2. in the etsy teams page, under active teams, type a keyword in the search box, optionally choose a location or category, and click apply. etsy searches teams for the keyword that you entered and displays a list of matches. ( see figure 18 - 7. ) you can use the sort drop - down menu to sort your matches by recent activity, newest teams, or alphabetically ( a – z or z – a ). 3. click a team in the list of matches to learn more about it. the team ’ s page opens. if the team is open to anyone, you see recent team activity as well as information about the team and who ’ s eligible to join, along with a sampling of team members. ( see figure 18 - 8. ) if it ’ s a “ closed ” team, you see a page with team information and a send request to join button. source : etsy. com figure 18 - 7 : search for a team. source : etsy. com figure 18 - 8 : an etsy teams page. joining an etsy team some teams are open to any and all etsy members. others are closed, meaning they limit their membership based on certain criteria. still others are hidden. they don ’ t appear in the teams directory or in search results. you can ’ t join a hidden team unless you ’ re invited. to join a team that ’ s open to all, simply click the join team button that appears in the top - left corner of the team ’ s page. a welcome message appears at the top of the team page and your profile picture appears in the list of team members. the team that you joined also appears near the top of your main teams page. joining a closed team, which is one that restricts membership, is a bit more involved. instead of simply clicking a button, you must apply for membership. to do so, simply click the send request to join button. if you meet the membership criteria, as determined by the team captain and laid out in the team charter, you ’ ll likely be accepted — although the team leadership may deny membership at its discretion. either way, after the team makes a decision, it ’ ll notify you via email. when you become a member of a team, you can view and reply to posts in existing discussions and create new discussions in the same way you do on etsy forums. you can also subscribe to the team ’ s digest emails, which contain a summary of the team ’ s most recent discussion activity. that way, you can keep track of the team ’ s goings - on without having to log in to etsy first. to subscribe to a team ’ s digest email, click the options menu in the upper - right corner of the team ’ s main page and choose subscribe. if you change your mind about subscribing, click the options menu and choose unsubscribe. etsy teams aren ’ t like the hotel california. in other words, you can leave them anytime. to do so, click the options menu on the team ’ s main page and choose leave team. miss manners : respecting community etiquette when it comes to interacting with the etsy community — for example, in etsy forums or within an etsy team — some important ground rules apply. etsy ’ s community policy, found in its house rules, spells out these rules in detail ( see ). if you www. etsy. com / legal / community violate any of these rules, etsy may take action, ranging from removing your post or closing your discussion to revoking your privileges. here ’ s the main rule : for pete ’ s sake, be nice. it should go without saying that you need to treat all etsy members with respect, but we ’ re saying it anyway, just so there ’ s no confusion. also, never knowingly harass, insult, abuse, or otherwise dis another site user. finally, don ’ t “ call out ” an etsy member, shop, or item — that is, don ’ t discuss them in a negative manner. beyond that rule, here are a few other points to keep in mind as you mingle in the etsy community ( for a complete list, check out the aforementioned community policy ) : don ’ t post while angry. yes, discussions in etsy community spaces sometimes get testy. after all, the etsy community consists of millions of passionate, creative types. but if you find yourself getting your dander up, step away from the keyboard. in the history of the world, no good ever came from firing off a message in anger! besides, if you do, you ’ ll likely violate the aforementioned “ be nice ” rule. stay on topic. sure, tangents happen. but if the tangent intensifies to such a degree that it threatens to smother the main discussion, others interested in the “ real ” topic can ’ t find the info they need. if you find yourself part of a discussion that ’ s gone off the rails, consider starting a new discussion to handle that tangential issue. protect your privacy. don ’ t share private information of any type, like your ( or someone else ’ s ) email address, phone number, address, or what have you, on etsy ’ s public spaces. also, put the kibosh on public discussions about specific transactions or feedback that you ’ ve received. posts are permanent. they say nothing lasts forever … but your etsy posts do. there ’ s no way to take down an etsy community post. don ’ t solicit. even if you ’ re raising money for the best, most important charity on the planet, etsy members are prohibited from trolling for donations or engaging in other types of fundraising on etsy forums and etsy teams. similarly, spamming etsy forums and etsy teams — that is, posting unsolicited advertisements — is a no - no. don ’ t bite the hand that feeds you. by “ bite, ” we mean speak negatively of or encourage rule - breaking ; and by “ the hand that feeds you, ” we mean etsy. in other words, don ’ t use etsy ’ s community tools to dis etsy. to maintain order, etsy relies on moderators. they ’ re a little bit like hall monitors. they keep an eye on the etsy community to make sure no one breaks the rules — and take action if someone does. be aware that if a moderator takes action against you, it ’ s final. what they say goes. badge romance : earning etsy community ranks and badges etsy rewards members who actively participate in the etsy community with special ranks and badges. these ranks and badges are displayed on your etsy community profile page and wherever you post content in the etsy community. the easiest badge to earn is probably the reader badge. etsy confers this badge on any member who reads a few discussions. other badges include the avid reader badge ( which you earn by reading even more discussions ), community navigator ( for members who read and share lots of forum posts ), inspiration seeker ( for members who post in a forum for the first time ), post crafter ( for members who post a few times ), and more. you can assist etsy moderators by flagging posts in etsy forum discussions that run afoul of etsy ’ s community policy. to do so, click the down arrow on the right side of the post and choose report inappropriate content. then, in the report abuse page, explain why you ’ re reporting the post and click save. ( note : if the offending post is in an etsy team discussion, notify the team captain instead. ) chapter 19 news attitude : keeping up with etsy news in this chapter checking out the etsy journal subscribing to etsy emails following etsy on social media joining etsy prototypes as big and active as etsy is, staying abreast of all its goings - on can be as challenging as solving a rubik ’ s cube during a blackout. fortunately, etsy maintains several resources to help members stay on top of etsy - related info, including a blog, email newsletters, and social media pages. you can also explore etsy ’ s bleeding edge by joining etsy prototypes. in this chapter, you discover all the ways you can keep up with etsy. dear diary : exploring the etsy journal maybe you ’ re looking for tips to improve your etsy shop. or perhaps you want to explore a new craft medium. or perchance you want a glimpse into the lives of other etsy sellers. or suppose you just need some inspiration already. whatever you ’ re after, the etsy journal is for you. to access the etsy journal, scroll down to the footer area on any etsy marketplace page and click etsy blog in the shop category of links. figure 19 - 1 shows the main page of the etsy journal. source : etsy. com figure 19 - 1 : the etsy journal. of course, you could just scroll through this main page of the etsy journal to see what ’ s new. or you can try a more targeted approach by using the links in the top - left corner of the main etsy journal page. these links offer easy access to blog posts in the following categories : shopping guides : click this link to view blog posts whose purpose is to help you identify the absolute perfect whatever - you ’ re - shopping - for. gift ideas : stumped on what to buy for [ insert person here ] to celebrate [ add holiday / occasion here ]? the etsy journal can help. click this link for instant access to literally thousands of gift ideas. home and living : for household items and general decorating ideas, click this link. weddings : people say getting married is more stressful than being fired and only slightly less stressful than suffering a personal injury or illness. we say those people haven ’ t discovered the weddings section of the etsy journal. it offers nuptial - centric shopping guides, suggests top wedding - oriented shops, and tracks top trends. it also shares inspiring true stories of real weddings that did not end in disaster. style : like the home and living link, the style link offers instant access to shopping guides, featured shops, and general style inspo. the only difference is that these posts focus on clothing and accessories rather than home goods. to read any post on the etsy journal, regardless of category, simply click the post ’ s title. etsy opens the post in its own page, as shown in figure 19 - 2. source : etsy. com figure 19 - 2 : read a post on the etsy journal. featured shops the etsy journal regularly features some of the site ’ s top shops — ones that display ingenuity, sell well - made items, and populate each listing with interesting descriptions and top - notch photos. to access these featured shops, click any entries on the etsy journal page whose headlines contain the words “ featured shop. ” if you ’ re just starting out on etsy, reading up on featured shops is a great way to ferret out tips and tricks for becoming a successful seller — not to mention being totally inspired! browsing is a great way to explore the etsy journal. but maybe you ’ re looking for an article on a specific topic. to expedite locating it, you can run a search. here ’ s how : 1. type your keyword or phrase in the search the blog box at the top of any etsy journal page and press return or enter on your keyboard. etsy displays a list of posts containing the keyword you typed. 2. click a post title to view the post. mail bonding : signing up for etsy email newsletters if you ’ ve ever felt overwhelmed by the sheer number of fantastic items on etsy, or wished you could employ a personal shopper to sift through them for you, or if you just feel adrift on the etsy sea, you ’ ll want to sign up for etsy email newsletters. when you do, you ’ ll receive regular messages featuring links to all manner of magnificent merch, right in your email inbox. there are other types of email newsletters, too — some for shoppers, some for sellers, and some for etsy members who want to help improve the site. in the following sections, we describe the kinds of email newsletters that are available and explain how to sign up to receive them. sifting through different types of email newsletters you can choose to subscribe to any or all of the following etsy email newsletters : new and notable : this newsletter is chock - full of trends and recommendations, as well as upcoming sales, events, and collaborations. feedback : etsy members interested in participating in marketing surveys and interviews to help improve etsy can sign up for this newsletter. coupons and promotions : hey, who doesn ’ t love a deal? if you ’ d like to find out about sales and special promotions on etsy, this newsletter is for you. forums : maybe you ’ re a regular participant in a particular etsy forum, or you love keeping up with a certain etsy team. in that case, you can subscribe to the forums newsletter to receive notifications of activity on those community platforms. etsy advocacy : etsy ’ s a marketplace. but it ’ s more than that. it ’ s an organization devoted to advocating for its core values — things like economic justice, equal rights, and sustainability. to stay on top of etsy ’ s advocacy efforts, subscribe to this newsletter. my seller activity : are you ready to push your etsy business further? then sign up for this newsletter. it offers reports, guides, and insights to help you elevate your etsy shop. news and features : for regular updates on what etsy is up to and how the site is growing, subscribe to this newsletter. tips for improving my shop : this newsletter offers tips from top sellers that you can use to pimp your shop. pattern news : if you ’ ve built a pattern website to mirror your etsy shop, subscribe to this newsletter for pattern - related tips and resources. etsy plus and etsy premium news : maybe you ’ ve subscribed to etsy plus or etsy premium. if so, this newsletter is geared toward you, to help you get the most out of these add - on services. subscribing to email newsletters to sign up for etsy email newsletters, follow these steps : 1. open the your account menu on any etsy marketplace page and choose account settings. 2. click the email tab in the page that appears. etsy presents you with a list of newsletters to which you can subscribe ( see figure 19 - 3 ). ( notice that in addition to enabling you to choose what newsletters you want to subscribe to, you can perform other email - related actions, such as indicating which types of email notifications you want to receive from etsy. ) 3. select the check box next to each newsletter to which you want to subscribe. 4. click the save settings button. etsy signs you up to receive the newsletters you selected. source : etsy. com figure 19 - 3 : sign up for etsy email newsletters here. if you decide you no longer want to receive a newsletter, simply click the unsubscribe link that appears along the bottom of every etsy newsletter. alternatively, manage your subscriptions by returning to the page shown in figure 19 - 3, deselecting the check boxes next to the newsletters to which you want to unsubscribe, and clicking the save settings button. ( note : you can also opt out of holiday - themed emails. for example, if you ’ ve recently broken up with your partner, you probably won ’ t want to receive a bunch of emails about valentine ’ s day gifts! ) social skills : staying in touch using social media if you ’ re like 1 billion or so other people, you probably maintain at least one social media account. not surprisingly, etsy does, too! etsy maintains a presence on a few different social media sites, including instagram, facebook, pinterest, twitter, and youtube. you can follow etsy on any of these sites to keep up with the latest etsy happenings. the easiest way to follow etsy on social media is to scroll down to the very bottom of any etsy marketplace page and click the logo for the social media site on which you want to follow etsy. when you do, you ’ ll land on etsy ’ s page on that site ; from there, you simply “ like, ” “ follow, ” or whatever. figure 19 - 4 shows etsy ’ s twitter page. source : etsy. com figure 19 - 4 : “ follow ” etsy on twitter. proto tip : joining etsy prototypes want to be on the cutting edge on etsy? then look into prototypes. prototypes are projects run by etsy admins that explore different ways of using etsy. the idea behind prototypes is to gather data and observe how people use the tools offered in the prototype. figure 19 - 5 shows the prototypes page, which you access by visiting. www. etsy. com / prototypes to participate in an etsy prototype, you must join it. to do so, click the join prototype button next to the prototype on the main etsy prototypes page. you ’ ll be prompted to confirm your choice ; click join prototype again. when you join a prototype, you ’ re automatically added to a team dedicated to that prototype. being on a team enables you to discuss the prototype and interact with etsy admin. source : etsy. com figure 19 - 5 : etsy prototypes. be warned : because of their experimental nature, some prototypes don ’ t work as planned. don ’ t panic — it ’ s not like anything ’ s going to explode. it ’ s just that some prototypes end up being somewhat of a bust, in which case they may be discontinued by etsy. on the plus side, if a prototype works exceptionally well, it may be incorporated into the larger etsy site — in which case, you ’ ll have the advantage of already knowing how to use it! chapter 20 help me! getting help on etsy in this chapter searching for help topics on your own contacting etsy support studying the seller handbook checking the forum for answers to common problems yes, etsy is super easy to use. but that doesn ’ t mean you won ’ t ever need a little help. fortunately, etsy maintains copious resources to help members find answers to all their burning questions ( the ones about using etsy, anyway ). this chapter covers getting help on etsy. search and rescue : finding help on etsy if you ’ re on etsy, you ’ re probably a diy type. so, you ’ ll appreciate that etsy makes it easy for you to find help all on your own, whenever you need it. etsy maintains its help info in one easy - to - access place : the help center. to open the etsy help center, click the help center link in the footer area at the bottom of any etsy marketplace page. alternatively, in shop manager, click the community & help link and choose etsy help. when you open the etsy help center ( see figure 20 - 1 ), you see a series of featured articles that pertain to shopping on etsy. below those, various shopping - related categories appear. to switch to a page with articles and categories geared toward sellers, click the selling with etsy link above the featured articles heading. ( click the shopping on etsy link to switch back. ) source : etsy. com figure 20 - 1 : the etsy help center. if none of the featured articles or categories meets your needs, you can try searching. simply type a keyword or phrase in the search box at the top of the help center and press return or enter. etsy will display a list of help articles that relate to the keyword or phrase you typed. ( see figure 20 - 2. ) if etsy returns too many matches, try the techniques discussed in chapter 3 to winnow down your search. to open a help article — whether it ’ s one in the featured articles section of the etsy help center or one listed in your search results — click its link. ( see figure 20 - 3. ) scroll to the bottom of the article page for links to related articles. the etsy help center is also available from the etsy seller app. to access it, tap the more button at the bottom of the screen, tap support, and then tap help center. source : etsy. com figure 20 - 2 : view your matches. source : etsy. com figure 20 - 3 : read a help article. help us, etsy - wan kenobi : contacting etsy support maybe you tried using the etsy help center to solve your problem, but you struck out. in that case, you can contact etsy support for help. when you contact etsy support, etsy first recommends several relevant help articles that may address your issue. if you still don ’ t find the info you need, you ’ ll be connected with etsy support. to start getting in touch with etsy support, you want to open the get help page. ( see figure 20 - 4. ) you do so by clicking the contact etsy support button near the bottom of the main etsy help center page. ( see the previous section for help accessing the etsy help center. ) you can also open the get help page from the shop manager by clicking the community & help link and choosing contact us. source : etsy. com figure 20 - 4 : contact etsy support. on the get help page, click buying on etsy or selling on etsy, depending on what you need help with, to see a list of broad help categories. then click the broad category that ’ s most relevant to you. after that, click through the various subcategories until etsy displays what it deems to be a pertinent help article. if the help article addresses your issue, great! you ’ re all set. but if not, you can click the i still need help button to initiate contact with etsy. depending on what type of issue you ’ re trying to resolve, you ’ ll have the option to take one, two, or all of the following actions ( see figure 20 - 5 ) : have etsy call you : if you select this option, etsy prompts you to provide your phone number. type it in the box provided, click submit, and keep your phone handy so that you can take the call when it comes. email etsy : with this option, etsy provides an email form for you to fill out. enter the requested information and click send ; etsy will try to reply within the next 24 hours. chat with an etsy representative : choose this option to launch a chat with us window. then type the requested information in the message box and click start chat. source : etsy. com figure 20 - 5 : contact etsy support. you can also contact etsy support from the etsy seller app. to do so, tap the more button, tap support, and tap help center. then scroll down to the bottom of the help center page and tap contact etsy support. forum letter : finding answers in the etsy forums chapter 18 talks about using etsy forums to connect with other etsy members and participate in the broader etsy community. but you can also use etsy forums to search for help. to open the etsy forums page, click the ask the forums link at the bottom of the main etsy help center page. alternatively, click the community & help link in shop manager and choose forums. when you ’ re on the etsy forums page, type a keyword or phrase in the search box at the top of the page and click search. you see a list of etsy forum posts that relate to the keyword or phrase you entered. to read a post, just click its link in the list. if your search comes up empty, you do have one more option : creating a new thread in a forum to ask your question. odds are, someone in the etsy community or on the etsy staff can provide the answer. just be sure to pose your question in the right forum. for example, if you have a photography question, ask your question in the photography tips forum. or if you have a shipping question, ask it in the all about shipping forum. ( to find out how to create a new discussion, see chapter 18. ) handy dandy : studying the seller handbook the etsy help center and etsy forums are great. but if you ’ re looking for help with your etsy shop, or just want to learn how to be a more successful seller, you ’ ll want to check out the etsy seller handbook. boasting a bajillion articles on basically every shop - related topic ever, and with new posts added on the regular, the seller handbook is the ultimate resource for any etsy seller. to access this meaty compendium of shop - related knowledge, click the seller handbook link in the footer area at the bottom of any etsy marketplace page. or, in the shop manager, click the community & help link and choose seller handbook. figure 20 - 6 shows the latest articles page of the seller handbook, which is displayed by default. the seller handbook offers you several ways to locate whatever shop - related info you need. for example : search : to search for an article on a specific topic, click the magnifying glass icon in the upper - right corner of any seller handbook page, type a relevant keyword or phrase, and press enter or return. categories : etsy organizes articles in the seller handbook into a few sweeping categories : latest articles, getting started, growing your business, seller stories, and site updates. you see links to each of these categories along the top of every seller handbook page. ( there ’ s also a saved articles link ; more on this in a minute. ) source : etsy. com figure 20 - 6 : the seller handbook. popular topics : when you scroll down the latest articles page in the seller handbook, you see a popular topics heading on the right side of the page. below that are links to articles on popular topics, like getting found ; photography ; pricing, taxes, and finance ; marketplace insights ; and more. in pod we trust : the etsy success podcast the popular topics list also includes an etsy success podcast link, which you can click to see a list of recent episodes of the etsy success podcast. the etsy success podcast features etsy experts who share their insights on some shop - related topic, like optimizing your listings for search, growing your social media following, tracking recent trends, and so on. click any episode in the list to listen to it ( most episodes run under 10 minutes ), or read its transcript. you can listen and subscribe to the etsy success podcast on various platforms, including itunes ( https : / / podcasts. apple. com / us / podcast / etsy - success - podcast / id1239556187 ), stitcher ( https : / / www. stitcher. com / show / etsy - success - podcast ), tunein ( https : / / tunein. com / podcasts / podcasts / etsy - success - podcast - p1001310 / ), and soundcloud ( https : / / soundcloud. com / etsy - 699847215 ). the etsy success podcast could even feature you! to submit your story for consideration on the podcast and etsy ’ s other marketing channels, go to https : / / www. surveygizmo. com / s3 / 1538075 / seller - handbook - pitch - form. the seller handbook also offers links to etsy community events, teams, and forums ( see chapter 18 ), feature opportunities ( see chapter 14 ), site updates, and the etsy help center, on the right side of the latest articles page. when you find an article you want to read in the seller handbook — whether by searching or by browsing through categories or popular topics — simply click it to open it. ( see figure 20 - 7. ) source : etsy. com figure 20 - 7 : click an article to open it. if you read an article that ’ s super useful, and you know you ’ ll want to revisit it later, you can save it. to do so, click the bookmark button ( it features what looks like a ribbon ) in the upper - right corner of the article page. ( refer to figure 20 - 7. ) articles you save appear on the saved articles page ( see figure 20 - 8 ), which you access by clicking the saved articles link, located to the right of the category links along the top of every seller handbook page. source : etsy. com figure 20 - 8 : accessing saved articles in the seller handbook. part 6 the part of tens in this part … find out how to be the best etsy seller you can be — and love what you do. see how to market your wares, online and in real life. chapter 21 ten terrific tips for etsy sellers in this chapter getting ( and staying ) organized serving customers and networking loving what you do running an etsy shop — even if it ’ s just a hobby — is no small undertaking. organization is critical, as is offering top - notch customer service. here ’ s the place where we offer a neat, concise roll call of ten terrific tips for etsy sellers. drum roll, please! have a place for everything nothing is as frustrating as trying to find just the right bead, button, ribbon, or supply when you have 82 orders breathing down your neck. do yourself a favor : get organized! figure out the best way to store all your supplies, both for your craft and for your business. first, sort all your supplies by type or color. then stash everything in a place where you can easily find it. in our experience, clear boxes with labels are the only way to go for supplies on the wee side. stock up to save time we ’ ve wasted too much of our lives looking for scissors, and then tracking down tape, and then wondering where the heck that marker went. save yourself a ton of time and aggravation by buying many, many multiples of oft - used supplies. our advice? head to a discount store and knock yourself out. get a dozen pairs of scissors, a zillion rolls of tape, and lots of whatever else you need. organize your paperwork even if it ’ s just a shoe box, have a place to stick all your business - related receipts, whether they ’ re for crafting tools, packaging supplies, or what have you. then have another place for your other paperwork — invoices, bank statements, and such. tax time is tough enough without having to sort through all that stuff at the 11th hour! ( flip to chapter 16 for more details on handling paperwork and other business - related issues. ) use what you discover from other shops before you start selling on etsy, buy a handful of items from a handful of sellers. pay attention to the way each seller communicates with you, the packaging they use, how long it takes for them to ship to you, and so on. what are the sellers doing right? where can they improve? then put what you learn to work in your own etsy shop. offer service with a smile no, your online customers can ’ t see you. but that doesn ’ t mean you can cop an attitude with them. in fact, even though you ’ re “ out of sight, ” your lousy outlook will ooze into everything you do. remember, on etsy, it ’ s all about the customer service! offering service with a smile is a good way to ensure that you get a smile in return. ( check out chapter 15 for more customer service tips. ) connect, connect, connect connecting with others is a wonderful way to grow your etsy business. whether you ’ re interacting with members of the etsy community ( see part 5 ) or just going about your day in the real world, make it a point to connect with people. ask questions. coax those you meet to share their stories. offer to help others. engage in the kinds of behaviors that let people know who you are, what you ’ re about, and, eventually, what you do. test and experiment don ’ t be afraid to do some trial and error. try out keywords and see how they perform. same with photography styles and social strategies. keep going with what works for you and let go of what doesn ’ t. learn to say no as an etsy seller, you ’ ll almost certainly be inundated with requests for freebies, donations, and discounts. you know what? it ’ s perfectly okay to say no to some or even all of these requests. pick and choose. say yes to the requests that make you feel good and that are good for your business ; to everything else, say no. never give in take a lesson from the great british prime minister winston churchill : “ never give in. never give in. never, never, never, never. ” although churchill uttered those words in an attempt to galvanize the british against their axis foes, they apply equally to etsy sellers — with a spin : if you have an original idea for a product that you love, never stop developing and finessing and improving and learning and changing and working hard. never, never, never, never. have fun! do your best to maintain perspective. selling your work on etsy should be fun! chortle on the inside when a customer requests a purse made entirely of gum wrappers, and enjoy yourself! chapter 22 ten strategies for marketing your etsy shop in this chapter bringing folks to your etsy shop ( and keeping them there ) using technology to your advantage marketing your wares in the real world marketing is the key to any successful business, your etsy shop included. here, we offer ten tips you need to know to successfully market your etsy shop. ( flip to chapter 14 for even more guidance. ) offer tiered pricing if all you had to offer were $ 25 gumball machines, you ’ d really be limiting your customer base. by offering a $ 5 gumball machine as well as a $ 100 gumball machine, you open your shop to buyers with different - sized pocketbooks. with so - called “ tiered pricing, ” you can include big - ticket items to make your shop seem more exciting, while at the same time offer goodies for entry - level shoppers. give to get helping someone by giving them more than they asked for makes that person want to return the favor. build trust and develop relationships with your customers by offering something for nothing — say, a gift with a purchase or a coupon code for their next purchase. but don ’ t go the cheap route — it may actually work against you by turning off customers. make sure you offer only good - quality stuff. provide a guarantee you can engender a lot of trust by offering to replace or refund an item if the customer isn ’ t happy for any reason. buying online can be a scary proposition ; you can break down a barrier by letting shoppers know that you ’ re willing to work with them. we guarantee it! consider a loyalty program loyalty programs — say, frequent - customer cards — can be a great way to bring back return customers. your loyalty program could offer prizes, future discounts, and other incentives designed to keep customers doing business with you. as you develop your loyalty program, don ’ t forget your branding. design customer cards that reflect your shop ’ s color, logo, design, and feel. impose a deadline overcome the customer ’ s natural tendency to put things off by offering a sale with a deadline. add a sense of urgency to your marketing message, and customers will respond. send an email newsletter if you ’ re serious about your etsy shop, consider publishing a newsletter. a newsletter can serve as an excellent marketing tool to help you grow your customer base. newsletters are a great way to share tips and ideas. you can even run contests and giveaways. wear your items in the real world … one of the simplest ways to promote your work is to use or wear your pieces in everyday life, and to always have a business card handy. that way, when your barista compliments you on your beautiful bedazzled bracelet, you can hand them your business card and tell them where to get one of their very own. … and on social media, too if you ’ re wearing one of your pieces, post a photo of it on your social media channels, and add relevant hashtags to draw in more viewers. then mention your etsy shop in your caption. it ’ s a great way to cast a wide net to snare prospective buyers! do more than pose don ’ t limit your social media practices to advertising your wares. use these platforms to see what others are doing, too. read and comment on people ’ s posts. congratulate a fellow seller on her successful sale or cheer up a twitter buddy who ’ s down in the dumps. it ’ s karma, baby! help your community get your craft business some publicity by doing something to benefit your community. for example, create a special breast cancer awareness necklace to honor a neighbor, or hold a special sale to help out someone in your area. make sure you let your local media know what you ’ re up to! index numerics 1099 tax form, 272 a about page, 7 about section etsy marketplace, 28 links, 101 photos, 100 shop members, 102 story and headline, 100 – 101 video, 99 – 100 about your shop option, shop manager, 107 account page, 31 – 32 account settings option, your account menu, 30 active listings, 180. see also item listings add a new listing page listing details section, 166 – 168 manage this listing button, 177 – 178 overview, 164 – 165 personalization section, 171 photos section, 165 preview button, 175 – 176 returns and exchanges section, 175 shipping section, 172 – 175 variations section, 170 – 171 video section, 166 add to cart button, shopping cart, 50 addresses page, shop manager, 33, 35 adobe express, 151 – 152 advanced research projects agency ( arpa ), 271 advertising branding, 216 – 219 etsy ads, 219 – 224 announcements, shop, 97 – 99 announcements forum, 300 aperture, camera, 135 architectural background, product images, 137 arpa ( advanced research projects agency ), 271 attributes, etsy, 167 auto - billing, 265 avatars, 38 avid reader badge, 310 b background, product images architectural, 137 background blur, 143 – 144 color, 138 patterns, 137 sweeps, 136 – 137 backup codes, 72 badges avid reader badge, 310 community navigator badge, 310 inspiration seeker badge, 310 post crafter badge, 310 rave reviews badge, 49, 252 reader badge, 310 smooth shipping badge, 49, 252 speedy replies badge, 49, 252 star seller badge, 49, 252 – 253 banners adding to shop, 94 – 96 carousel banner, 288 collage banner, 288 based on your activity section, etsy marketplace, 47 boxup, 287 branding infusing into everything, 218 – 219 logo, 217 – 218 overview, 216 – 217 tag line, 217 browsing categories, 45 – 46 business model, 8 – 9 business structures corporations, 273 – 274 general partnership, 273 limited liability company, 274 limited partnership, 273 sole proprietorship, 273 buy it now button, shopping cart, 50 buying items checking up on seller badges, 49 reading seller ' s reviews, 49 shop ' s rating, 48 – 49 custom orders, 42 in etsy app, 55 finding items browsing categories, 45 – 46 editors ’ picks, 47 – 48 overview, 42 personalized picks, 46 – 47 search tool, 43 – 45 gift cards, 48 leaving reviews, 55 – 57 overview, 41 – 42 purchase protection program, 59 – 63 resolving issues with seller, 57 – 59 transactions, 50 – 54 c calculated shipping feature, 173 cameras aperture, 135 auto - focus, 145 depth of field, 135 dslr, 134 exposure, 135 f - stop setting, 135 iso setting, 135 point - and - shoot, 134 shutter, 135 shutter speed, 135 cancellation policies, 113 – 114 c - corporations, 274 checking up on seller badges, 49 reading seller ' s reviews, 49 shop ' s rating, 48 – 49 close - ups shots, 136 closing shop, 278 – 279 color background, product images, 138 comma - separated value ( csv ) file, 270 communication. see also etsy messages answering customer questions, 251 requesting feedback, 252 saved replies, 252 shipping confirmation, 251 thanking buyer, 251 community & help tool, shop manager, 107 community navigator badge, 310 community section, privacy policy, 67 competition, assessing, 126 – 127 composition, product images background blur, 143 – 144 camera angle, 142 – 143 focus, 145 – 146 framing, 144 grouping items, 144 rule of thirds, 144 – 145 shooting tight, 142 – 143 corporations, 273 – 274 coupon codes apply shop coupon codes link, 51 – 52 creating, 227 – 229 deactivatiing, 234 including with purchase, 194 coupons and promotions newsletter, 314 credit cards, 52, 92 credit cards page, 35 csv ( comma - separated value ) file, 270 custom orders, 42, 172 custom packing slips, 203 – 204 customer service badges rave reviews badge, 49, 252 smooth shipping badge, 49, 252 speedy replies badge, 49, 252 star seller badge, 49, 252 – 253 etsy messages accessing, 248 answering customer questions, 251 email notifications, 249 – 250 overview, 247 – 248 reading, 248 requesting feedback, 252 saved replies, 252 sending, 249 shipping confirmation, 251 thanking buyer, 251 overview, 247 resolving issues canceling orders, 257 – 258 handling difficult customers, 259 lost items, 253 – 254 negative reviews, 258 – 259 purchase protection program, 254 returns and refunds, 255 – 257 selling process, 332 – 333 d dashboard, shop manager, 262 – 263 data collection section, privacy policy, 67 deactivating item listing, 180 – 181 deadlines, 336 deals section, etsy marketplace, 47 deposit schedule, payments, 267 depth of field, camera, 135 design packaging, 193 designers, defined, 78 – 79 device history, viewing, 70 diffusing light, product images, 141 – 142 digital single - lens reflex ( dslr ) camera, 134 discounts and sales editing, 232 – 233 ending early, 233 free shipping and handling, 125 – 126, 224 overview, 224 promo codes, 227 – 229 publicizing, 228 setting up, 225 – 227 strategy for, 130 targeted offers, 230 – 231 discussions, etsy forum bookmarking, 304 – 305 replying to post, 302 – 303 sharing, 301 – 302 starting, 303 – 304 subscribing to, 305 viewing, 301 double check your order details page, 53 – 54 dslr ( digital single - lens reflex ) camera, 134 e ebay, 8 ecoenclose, 192 edit shop page about section, 99 banners and icons, 95 – 96 title and announcements, 98 editing item listings, 176 – 178 product images overview, 147 – 148 pixlr e, 148 – 151 videos, 151 – 152 editors ’ picks, etsy marketplace, 47 – 48 electronic federal tax payment system ( eftps ), 275 email newsletters, 16, 337 coupons and promotions newsletter, 314 etsy advocacy newsletter, 315 etsy plus and etsy premium news newsletter, 315 feedback newsletter, 314 forums newsletter, 315 my seller activity newsletter, 315 new and notable newsletter, 314 news and features newsletter, 315 pattern news newsletter, 315 tips for improving my shop newsletter, 315 emails page, 35 – 36 erank tool, 155 etsy about page, 7 attributes, 167 business model, 8 – 9 ebay vs., 8 home page, 9 – 10 overview, 7 – 8 purpose of, 1, 8 registering with, 9 safety / security, 13 search tool, 12 selling process, 14 – 15 setting up shop, 14 shop manager, 11 – 12 social media channels, 235 – 236 your account, 10 – 11 etsy ads changing ad spend, 223 deactivating, 222 – 223 offsite ads, 221 setting up, 218 – 220 viewing stats, 221 – 222 etsy advocacy newsletter, 315 etsy app home page, 29 overview, 16 – 17 settings page, 36 shopping, 55 your account menu, 30 – 31 etsy community. see also etsy forums ; etsy teams avid reader badge, 310 community navigator badge, 310 email newsletters, 16 etiquette, 308 – 310 etsy journey, 16 forums, 15 help center, 16 inspiration seeker badge, 310 moderators, 309 podcasts, 15 post crafter badge, 310 reader badge, 310 seller handbook, 16 social media and, 16 teams, 15 etsy design award, 224 etsy forums accessing, 300 – 301 discussions bookmarking, 304 – 305 replying to post, 302 – 303 sharing, 301 – 302 starting, 303 – 304 subscribing to, 305 viewing, 301 as help resource, 323 – 324 overview, 299 – 300 security and safety on, 72 – 73 etsy journal, 3, 16, 27, 311 – 314 etsy marketplace based on your activity section, 47 deals section, 47 defined, 12 editors ’ picks, 47 – 48 home page about section, 28 favorites option, 26 footer links, 28 “ fresh from the blog ” section, 27 header bar, 27 help section, 28 overview, 25 – 26 recommended categories for you section, 46 sell section, 28 shop section, 27 – 28 updates option, 26 your account option, 26 recommended categories for you section, 47 shops we think you ’ ll love section, 47 sponsored by etsy sellers section, 46 etsy messages accessing, 248 answering customer questions, 251 email notifications, 249 – 250 overview, 247 – 248 reading, 248 requesting feedback, 252 saved replies, 252 sending, 249 shipping confirmation, 251 thanking buyer, 251 etsy payments, 52 – 53, 73, 90 – 92, 189 etsy plus accessing discounts, 288 overview, 287 – 288 restock requests, 289 subscribing to, 288 – 289 etsy plus and etsy premium news newsletter, 315 etsy prototype, 317 – 318 etsy seller app, 18 accessing help center, 320 accessing payment account info from, 266 canceling order on, 258 changing deposit schedule, 267 contacting etsy support from, 323 explore and, 241 – 242 managing listings with, 183 processing and shipping orders, 210 – 211 switching from etsy app to, 16 viewing stats on, 264 etsy shipping labels preferences, 198 – 200 printing, 200 – 203, 205 shipping rates, 198 etsy sold tool, 130 etsy success podcast, 325 – 326 etsy support, 322 – 323 etsy teams closed teams, 308 joining, 307 – 308 searching for, 306 – 307 security and safety, 72 etsy u, 300 european union ( eu ) general data protection regulation, 116 policies, 118 taric consultation tool, 209 expanding business adding shop members, 282 – 283 etsy plus accessing discounts, 288 overview, 287 – 288 restock requests, 289 subscribing to, 288 – 289 overview, 281 – 282 pattern, 290 production partners, 283 – 287 square, 293 – 295 translating shop into other languages, 290 – 292 expired listings, renewing, 180 explore feature, 241 – 245 f facebook, 235 – 237, 240 facebook shops option, shop manager, 108 faq ( frequently asked questions ) section, 118 – 119 favorites option, etsy marketplace, 26 featured listings, 183 fedex, 197 fee - based services advertising branding, 216 – 219 etsy ads, 219 – 224 etsy plus accessing discounts, 288 overview, 287 – 288 restock requests, 289 subscribing to, 288 – 289 etsy shipping labels preferences, 198 – 200 printing, 200 – 203, 205 shipping rates, 198 overview, 9 pattern, 290 feedback newsletter, 314 finances tool, shop manager, 106 financial records overview, 268, 270 quickbooks for etsy tool, 271 selling process, 332 spreadsheets, 270 findability section, privacy policy, 67 finding items browsing categories, 45 – 46 editors ’ picks, 47 – 48 overview, 42 personalized listings based on your activity section, 47 deals section, 47 recommended categories for you section, 47 shops we think you ’ ll love section, 47 sponsored by etsy sellers section, 46 your recent activity section, 46 search tool, 43 – 45 fixed policies, 116 flat - rate shipping, 192 footer links, etsy marketplace, 28 formulas, pricing retail price, 124 – 125 wholesale price labor costs, 122 – 123 materials costs, 122 overhead costs, 123 – 124 forums, 15. see also etsy forums forums newsletter, 315 free shipping guarantee, 174 freebies, 194 frequently asked questions ( faq ) section, 118 – 119 “ fresh from the blog ” section, etsy marketplace, 27 f - stop setting, camera, 135 g general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), 116 general partnership, 273 gift card balance option, your account menu, 29 gift cards, 48, 52 – 53 gift wrapping, 51, 195 – 196 golden hour, 141 google display network, 221 group shots, 136 growing business adding shop members, 282 – 283 etsy plus accessing discounts, 288 overview, 287 – 288 restock requests, 289 subscribing to, 288 – 289 overview, 281 – 282 pattern, 290 production partners, 283 – 287 square, 293 – 295 translating shop into other languages, 290 – 292 h handmade policy, 78 header bar, etsy marketplace, 27 headlines, 100 – 101 help center, 16, 319 – 321 help resources etsy forums, 323 – 324 etsy support, 322 – 323 help center, 319 – 321 seller handbook, 324 – 327 help section, etsy marketplace, 28 home page etsy app, 29 etsy marketplace about section, 28 favorites option, 26 footer links, 28 “ fresh from the blog ” section, 27 header bar, 27 help section, 28 overview, 25 – 26 sell section, 28 shop section, 27 – 28 updates option, 26 your account option, 26 navigating, 9 – 10 hover, 287 – 288 i icons, shop, 96 – 97 images, product background architectural, 137 color, 138 patterns, 137 sweeps, 136 – 137 choosing camera for, 134 – 135 close - ups, 136 composition of background blur, 143 – 144 camera angle, 142 – 143 focus, 145 – 146 framing, 144 grouping items, 144 rule of thirds, 144 – 145 shooting tight, 142 – 143 editing overview, 147 – 148 pixlr e, 148 – 151 group shots, 136 lifestyle shots, 136 lighting diffusing, 141 – 142 golden hour, 141 light tent, 141 natural, 141 live models, 140 – 141 overview, 133 – 134 props, 138 – 140 studio shots, 136 uploading to item listing, 165 videos editing, 151 – 152 overview, 146 – 147 income taxes, 271 – 272 individual country listings page, 209 info and appearance option, shop manager, 107 information and sharing section, privacy policy, 67 inspiration seeker badge, 310 instagram, 235 – 237, 240 insuring packages, 201 integrations tool, shop manager, 106 intellectual property ( ip ), 218 international shipping, 208 – 209 iso setting, camera, 135 item listings adding price, quantity, and sku, 169 adding video, 166 copying, 178 – 179 deactivating, 180 – 181 defining variations, 170 – 171 editing, 176 – 178 etsy seller app, 183 featured listings, 183 listing description, 166 – 168 overview, 163 personalization options, 172 personalized listings, 46 – 47 previewing, 175 publishing, 175 – 176 rearranging, 181 – 182 renewing active and expired listings, 180 sold - out listing, 179 – 180 returns and exchanges policy, 175 shipping options, 172 – 175 uploading images, 165 k keyword searches, 154 – 155 l labels, shipping preferences, 198 – 200 printing, 200 – 203, 205 shipping rates, 198 labor costs, 122 – 123 languages and translations option, shop manager, 108 lifestyle shots, 136 light tent ( light box ), 141 lighting diffusing, 141 – 142 golden hour, 141 light tent, 141 natural, 141 limited liability company ( llc ), 274 limited partnership, 273 listings adding price, quantity, and sku, 169 adding video, 166 copying, 178 – 179 deactivating, 180 – 181 defining variations, 170 – 171 editing, 176 – 178 etsy seller app, 183 featured listings, 183 listing description composing, 159 – 161 defined, 153 – 154 disclaimers, 161 item ' s story, 158 listing details section, 166 – 168 overview, 159 – 160 proofreading, 161 listing title composing, 157 defined, 153 – 154 proofreading, 161 overview, 163 personalizing, 46 – 47, 172 previewing, 175 publishing, 175 – 176 rearranging, 181 – 182 renewing, 179 – 180 returns and exchanges policy, 175 shipping options, 172 – 175 uploading images, 165 listings tool, shop manager, 106 llc ( limited liability company ), 274 logos, 217 – 218 lost items, 253 – 254 loyalty programs, 336 m makers, defined, 78 – 79 manage this listing button, add a new listing page, 177 – 178 manufacturing policies, 79 marketing branding infusing into everything, 218 – 219 logo, 217 – 218 overview, 216 – 217 tag line, 217 discounts managing, 232 – 234 overview, 224 promo codes, 227 – 229 sales, 225 – 227 targeted offers, 230 – 231 etsy ads changing ad spend, 223 deactivating, 222 – 223 offsite ads, 221 setting up, 218 – 220 viewing stats, 221 – 222 social media best practices, 240 – 241 connecting etsy shop to, 236 – 237 overview, 235 – 236 posting from etsy on, 237 – 240 strategies for deadlines, 336 email newsletters, 337 helping community, 337 loyalty programs, 336 offering gifts, 336 providing guarantees, 336 real world promotion, 337 social media, 337 tiered pricing, 335 videos, 241 – 245 marketing tool, shop manager, 106 marmalead, 155 materials costs, 122 mature content, 80 message to buyers feature, 190 – 191 messages from etsy section, privacy policy, 67 messages option, your account menu, 30 messages page, shop manager, 106. see also etsy messages moderators, etsy community, 309 monthly statement page, shop manager, 266, 270 moo business services, 287 my seller activity newsletter, 315 n natural lighting, 141 negative reviews, 258 – 259 new and notable newsletter, 314 news email newsletters, 314 – 316 etsy journal, 3, 16, 27, 311 – 314 etsy prototype, 317 – 318 social media, 316 – 317 newsletters, 16, 337 coupons and promotions newsletter, 314 etsy advocacy newsletter, 315 etsy plus and etsy premium news newsletter, 315 feedback newsletter, 314 forums newsletter, 315 my seller activity newsletter, 315 new and notable newsletter, 314 news and features newsletter, 315 pattern news newsletter, 315 tips for improving my shop newsletter, 315 notes section, shopping cart, 51 o offering gifts, 336 offsite ads option, shop manager, 108 online resources business license requirements, 268, 274 cheat sheet, 2 diy light tent, 135 etsy community, 3 etsy community house rules, 308 etsy forums, 305 etsy journal, 3, 16 etsy prototypes, 317 etsy reporting portal, 218 etsy success podcast, 326 gift - wrapping, 195 – 196 handmade policy, 78 help center, 16 individual country listings page, 209 manufacturing policies, 79 prohibited items policy page, 81 quarterly taxes, 274 search engine optimization tools, 155 seller handbook, 3, 16 taking product photos, 134 taric consultation tool, 175, 209 using tiktok with etsy, 235 usps, 192 usps postboxes, 206 worthpoint pricing guide, 130 options setting, shop manager, 107 orders. see also transactions canceling, 257 – 258 checking status of, 54 orders & shipping page, 106, 186 – 188 our house rules page, 20, 65 – 66 overhead costs, 123 – 124 p packaging items design packaging, 193 extras, 194 gift - wrapping services, 195 – 196 overview, 191 packing materials, 192 – 193 protecting items, 193 – 194 passwords, 69 – 70 pattern, 290 pattern news newsletter, 315 payment account page, shop manager, 265 – 266 payment methods credit / debit card, 52 etsy credit, 52 – 53 etsy payments, 73, 90 – 92, 189 gift cards, 52 – 53 google pay, 52 klarna, 52 paypal, 52 payment settings page, shop manager, 267 perceived value, 128 – 129 personalization section, add a new listing page, 171 personalized listings based on your activity section, 47 deals section, 47 recommended categories for you section, 47 shops we think you ’ ll love section, 47 sponsored by etsy sellers section, 46 your recent activity section, 46 photos, about section, 100 photos section, add a new listing page, 165 pinterest, 235 – 237, 240 pixlr e auto adjust tool, 148 auto pop tool, 148 effect library, 149 – 150 filters, 149 focus / bokeh tool, 150 saving edited images, 150 – 151 podcasts, 15 policies cancellations, 113 – 114 eu compliance, 118 faq section, 118 – 119 fixed policies, 116 general terms, 110 handmade policy, 78 manufacturing, 79 overview, 109 – 111 privacy, 66 – 67, 114 – 115 returns and exchanges, 111 – 113, 175 selling policies appeals, 82 – 83 designers, 78 – 79 handmade policy, 78 makers, 78 – 79 mature content, 80 overview, 77 – 78 prohibited items, 80 – 83 supplies, 79 vintage items, 79 viewing on shop page, 116 – 117 post crafter badge, 310 preferences preferences page, 33 setting up shop, 86 shipping labels, 198 – 200 preview button, add a new listing page, 175 – 176 previewing item listings, 175 pricing items adding price to item listing, 169 assessing competition ’ s pricing, 126 – 127 discount sales, 130 formulas, 122 – 126 overview, 121 perceived value and, 128 – 129 price reduction methods, 128 retail price, 124 – 125 shipping and handling, 125 – 126 for target market, 127 underestimating value of work, 121 vintage items, 129 – 130 wholesale price labor costs, 122 – 123 materials costs, 122 overhead costs, 123 – 124 printing shipping labels, 200 – 203, 205 privacy privacy page, 33 – 34 privacy policy community section, 67 data collection section, 67 findability section, 67 information and sharing section, 67 messages from etsy section, 67 overview, 66 – 67, 114 – 115 retention section, 67 security section, 67 transfers section, 67 your responsibilities section, 67 your rights and choices section, 67 privacy settings, 68 problem solving canceling orders, 257 – 258 handling difficult customers, 259 lost items, 253 – 254 negative reviews, 258 – 259 purchase protection program, 254 returns and refunds, 255 – 257 processing and shipping orders custom packing slips, 203 – 204 delivering, 205 – 206 etsy payments, 189 etsy seller app, 210 – 211 flat - rate pricing, 192 insuring packages, 201 international shipping, 208 – 209 orders & shipping page, 186 – 188 overview, 185 – 186 packaging items design packaging, 193 extras, 194 gift - wrapping services, 195 – 196 overview, 191 packing materials, 192 – 193 protecting items, 193 – 194 shipping carriers fedex, 197 ups, 197 usps, 196 – 197 shipping labels preferences, 198 – 200 printing, 200 – 203, 205 shipping rates, 198 shipping profiles, 206 – 208 shipping rates, 192 thanking buyer, 189 – 191 weight - based rates, 192 product images background architectural, 137 color, 138 patterns, 137 sweeps, 136 – 137 choosing camera for, 134 – 135 close - ups, 136 composition of background blur, 143 – 144 camera angle, 142 – 143 focus, 145 – 146 framing, 144 grouping items, 144 rule of thirds, 144 – 145 shooting tight, 142 – 143 editing overview, 147 – 148 pixlr e, 148 – 151 group shots, 136 lifestyle shots, 136 lighting diffusing, 141 – 142 golden hour, 141 light tent, 141 natural, 141 live models, 140 – 141 overview, 133 – 134 props, 138 – 140 studio shots, 136 uploading to item listing, 165 videos editing, 151 – 152 overview, 146 – 147 production partners, 108, 283 – 287 profile pictures, 38 profiles, shipping, 206 – 208 prohibited items certain services, 81 overview, 80 – 81 penalties for selling, 82 reporting, 81 – 82 promo codes apply shop coupon codes link, 51 – 52 creating, 227 – 229 deactivatiing, 234 including with purchase, 194 promotions, 337. see also advertising protecting items, 193 – 194 public profile page overview, 32 profile picture, 38 setting up, 37 – 40 writing bio, 39 publishing item listings, 175 – 176 purchase protection program, 59 – 63, 201, 254 purchases and reviews option, your account menu, 29 purchasing items checking up on seller badges, 49 reading seller ' s reviews, 49 shop ' s rating, 48 – 49 custom orders, 42 in etsy app, 55 finding items browsing categories, 45 – 46 editors ’ picks, 47 – 48 overview, 42 personalized picks, 46 – 47 search tool, 43 – 45 gift cards, 48 leaving reviews, 55 – 57 overview, 41 – 42 purchase protection program, 59 – 63 resolving issues with seller, 57 – 59 transactions, 50 – 54 q quantity, adding to item listing, 169 quarterly taxes, 274 – 275 quickbooks for etsy tool, 271 r rave reviews badge, 49, 252 reader badge, 310 rearranging item listings, 181 – 182 recommended categories for you section, etsy marketplace, 47 record keeping overview, 268, 270 quickbooks for etsy tool, 271 selling process, 332 spreadsheets, 270 refunds and returns, 255 – 257 registering with etsy, 9, 21 – 24 renewing item listings active and expired listings, 180 sold - out listing, 179 – 180 reopening shop, 279 reporting portal, 218 resolving issues canceling orders, 257 – 258 handling difficult customers, 259 lost items, 253 – 254 negative reviews, 258 – 259 purchase protection program, 254 returns and refunds, 255 – 257 retail price, 124 – 125 retention section, privacy policy, 67 return on advertising spend ( roas ), 221 returns and exchanges policies, 111 – 113, 175 returns and refunds, 255 – 257 reviews rave reviews badge, 49, 252 reading seller ' s reviews, 49 writing, 55 – 57 roas ( return on advertising spend ), 221 rule of thirds, 144 – 145 s sales and discounts editing, 232 – 233 ending early, 233 free shipping and handling, 125 – 126, 224 overview, 224 promo codes, 227 – 229 publicizing, 228 setting up, 225 – 227 strategy for, 130 targeted offers, 230 – 231 sales channels, shop manager, 108 scams, 73 s - corporations, 274 search engine optimization ( seo ) keywords, 154 – 155 tags, 155 – 156 search tool, 12, 43 – 45 security and safety avoiding oversharing, 72 backup codes, 72 device history, 70 on forums, 72 our house rules page, 65 – 66 overview, 13 passwords, 13, 69 – 70 privacy privacy policy, 66 – 67, 114 – 115 privacy page, 33 – 34 privacy settings, 68 scams, 13, 73 sign in history, 70 on teams, 72 two - factor authentication, 70 – 71 security page, 33 – 34, 67 sell section, etsy marketplace, 28 seller handbook, 3, 16, 324 – 327 sellers checking up on badges, 49 reading seller ' s reviews, 49 shop ' s rating, 48 – 49 resolving issues with, 57 – 59 star seller badge, 49, 252 – 253 selling policies appeals, 82 – 83 designers, 78 – 79 handmade policy, 78 makers, 78 – 79 mature content, 80 overview, 77 – 78 prohibited items certain services, 81 overview, 80 – 81 penalties for selling, 82 reporting, 81 – 82 supplies, 79 vintage items, 79 selling process item listings add a new listing page, 164 – 165 adding price, quantity, and sku, 169 adding video, 166 copying, 178 – 179 deactivating, 180 – 181 defining variations, 170 – 171 editing, 176 – 178 etsy seller app, 183 featured listings, 183 listing description, 166 – 168 overview, 163 personalization options, 172 previewing, 175 publishing, 175 – 176 rearranging, 181 – 182 renewing, 179 – 180 returns and exchanges policy, 175 shipping options, 172 – 175 uploading images, 165 listing description composing, 159 – 161 defined, 153 – 154 item ' s story, 158 overview, 159 – 160 proofreading, 161 listing title composing, 157 defined, 153 – 154 proofreading, 161 overview, 14 – 15 processing and shipping orders delivering, 205 – 206 etsy payments, 189 etsy seller app, 210 – 211 international shipping, 208 – 209 orders & shipping page, 186 – 188 overview, 185 – 186 packaging items, 191 – 196 shipping carriers, 196 – 197 shipping labels, 198 – 205 shipping profile, 206 – 208 thanking buyer, 189 – 191 product images background, 136 – 138 choosing camera for, 134 – 135 close - ups, 136 composition, 142 – 146 editing, 147 – 151 group shots, 136 lifestyle shots, 136 lighting, 141 – 142 live models, 140 – 141 overview, 133 – 134 props, 138 – 140 studio shots, 136 videos, 146 – 147, 151 – 152 search engine optimization keywords, 154 – 155 tags, 155 – 156 tips for connecting with others, 333 customer service, 332 – 333 having fun, 334 importance of persistence, 333 – 334 learning from other shops, 332 learning to say no, 333 organization, 331 record keeping, 332 stocking supplies, 332 testing and experimenting, 333 seo ( search engine optimization ) keywords, 154 – 155 tags, 155 – 156 set your daily budget dialog box, 220 setting up shop about section links, 101 photos, 100 shop members, 102 story and headline, 100 – 101 video, 99 – 100 banners and icons, 94 – 97 choosing name, 87 – 89 credit card, 92 etsy payments, 90 – 92 first listing, 87 – 89 overview, 85 personalizing shop, 14 preferences, 86 securing, 92 – 94 title and announcement, 97 – 99 viewing shop, 102 settings page, etsy app, 36 shipping and handling, 125 – 126, 172 – 175, 224. see also processing and shipping orders shipping carriers fedex, 197 ups, 197 usps, 196 – 197 shipping labels preferences, 198 – 200 printing, 200 – 203, 205 shipping rates, 198 shipping profiles, 206 – 208 shipping section, add a new listing page, 172 – 175 shipping settings option, shop manager, 107 shop manager. see also item listings about your shop option, 107 addresses page, 33, 35 closing shop, 278 – 279 community & help tool, 107 dashboard, 262 – 263 facebook shops option, 108 finances tool, 106 info and appearance option, 107 integrations tool, 106 languages and translations option, 108 languages and translations page, 291 – 292 listings tool, 106 marketing tool, 106 members page, 282 – 283 messages tool, 106 monthly statement page, 266, 270 navigating, 104 – 105 offsite ads option, 108 options setting, 107 orders & shipping page, 106, 186 – 188 overview, 11 – 12, 103 payment account page, 265 – 266 payment settings page, 267 production partners page, 108, 285 reopening shop, 279 sales channels, 108 shipping settings option, 107 star seller tool, 106 stats page, 106, 263 – 265 vacation mode, 275 – 278 your subscription option, 107 shop members about section, 102 adding to shop, 282 – 283 shop section, etsy marketplace, 27 – 28 shop stats tool, 155 shopping cart add to cart button, 50 buy it now button, 50 coupon codes, 51 – 52 gift wrapping option, 51 notes section, 51 payment methods, 52 – 53 removing items from, 51 this order is a gift check box, 51 shop ' s ratings, 48 – 49 shops we think you ’ ll love section, etsy marketplace, 47 shutter, camera, 135 shutter speed, camera, 135 sign in history, 70 signing in, 24 – 25 sku, adding to item listing, 169 small business marketing strategies all - in - one for dummies, 215 smooth shipping badge, 49, 252 social media best practices, 240 – 241 connecting etsy shop to, 236 – 237 etsy community and, 16 etsy news and, 316 – 317 hashtags, 241 marketing and, 337 overview, 235 – 236 posting from etsy on, 237 – 240 sold - out listings, renewing, 179 – 180 sole proprietorship, 273 speedy replies badge, 49, 252 sponsored by etsy sellers section, etsy marketplace, 46 spreadsheets, financial records, 270 square, 293 – 295 star seller badge, 49, 252 – 253 star seller page, shop manager, 106 starting a business all - in - one for dummies ( tyson and nelson ), 279 stats page, shop manager, 106, 263 – 265 stay signed in check box, 24 storefront about section, 99 – 102 banners and icons, 94 – 97 choosing name, 87 – 89 etsy payments, 90 – 92 first listing, 87 – 89 overview, 85 personalizing shop, 14 preferences, 86 securing, 92 – 94 setting up credit card, 92 title and announcement, 97 – 99 viewing, 102 story, about section, 100 – 101 studio shots, 136 supplies selling policies, 79 stocking, 332 sweeps, 136 – 137 t tag lines, 217 tags, 155 – 156 target market, pricing items for, 127 targeted offers deactivatiing, 234 sending, 230 – 231 taric consultation tool, 174 – 175, 209 tariff number, 174 taxes deductions, 269 income tax, 271 – 272 quarterly taxes, 274 – 275 1099 form, 272 teams. see etsy teams technical issues forum, 300 1099 tax form, 272 terms of use, 20 – 21 this order is a gift check box, shopping cart, 51 tiered pricing, 335 tiktok, 235 – 237, 240 tips for improving my shop newsletter, 315 title, shop, 97 – 99 tracking shipments, 254 statistics, 263 – 265 transactions canceling orders, 257 – 258 checking order status, 54 double check your order details page, 53 – 54 shopping cart add to cart button, 50 buy it now button, 50 coupon codes, 51 – 52 etsy payments, 52 – 53 gift wrapping option, 51 notes section, 51 removing items from, 51 this order is a gift check box, 51 transaction fees, 8 transfers section, privacy policy, 67 twitter, 235 – 237, 240 two - factor authentication, 67, 70 – 71, 93 u unique selling proposition ( usp ), 216 updates option, etsy marketplace, 26 ups, 197 u. s. postal service ( usps ) priority mail boxes, 192 shipping rates, 192 special relationship with etsy, 196 – 197 use simple policy link, policy settings page, 112 usp ( unique selling proposition ), 216 v vacation mode, 275 – 278 variations section, add a new listing page, 170 – 171 verification codes, 93 videos about section, 99 – 100 adding to item listing, 166 editing, 151 – 152 explore feature and, 241 – 245 overview, 146 – 147 view your profile option, your account menu, 29 vintage items pricing, 129 – 130 selling policies, 79 w weight - based shipping rates, 192 wholesale price labor costs, 122 – 123 materials costs, 122 overhead costs, 123 – 124 worthpoint pricing guide, 130 y you just purchased x label dialog box, 202 – 205 your account menu account page, 31 – 32 addresses page, 33, 35 credit cards page, 35 emails page, 35 – 36 etsy app, 30 – 31 gift card balance option, 29 messages option, 30 overview, 10 – 11, 30 preferences page, 33 privacy page, 33 – 34 public profile page, 32 purchases and reviews option, 29 security page, 33 – 34 sign out option, 30 view your profile option, 29 your impact option, 30 your offers option, 30 about the authors kate shoup : kate shoup has authored more than 60 books, including not your mama ’ s beading, not your mama ’ s stitching, and rubbish : reuse your refuse ( all published by wiley ). when not writing, kate loves to ski, read, craft, ride her motorcycle, and photograph the indycar circuit. she also plays a mean game of 9 - ball. kate lives in indianapolis with her husband and their two dogs. kate gatski : kate gatski is a handmade entrepreneur. she and her husband, ben, make sculpture and furniture full - time in their rural shop. their business, gatski metal, is in its 20th year. they enjoy working with a growing group of fantastic customers via their etsy shop. kate was born into craft, raised by a full - www. shopgatski. etsy. com time rag - rug weaver. kate is mother to three children who keep her from going all crafts, all the time. kate savors a strong cup of tea and a good mystery book. dedications kate shoup : for my parents, my sister, my husband, and my darling heidi - bird. kate gatski : to all of you — crafters, artists, makers, designers — who quietly labor away, creating something beautiful to share with the world. may this make some part of your efforts a little easier. authors ’ acknowledgments kate shoup : the publication of any book is an enormous undertaking, and this one was no exception! thanks go first to my excellent coauthor, kate gatski, who — figuratively, at least — pried more than one razor blade from my fingers. thanks also go to jennifer yee for giving us the opportunity to tackle this exciting project ; to susan - kate christophersen for her dedication, patience, and skill in editing this text in an attempt to keep us from looking like idiots and for guiding this project from start to finish ; to technical editor katie sandridge, who skillfully checked each step and offered valuable input along the way ; and to the layout team for their able efforts. special thanks to the following etsy sellers who graciously allowed us to feature their gorgeous photographs in our book : sara christensen, ed and kate coleman, ann crews, cody hughes, basak zeynep eroglu, bethany rusen, katie sandridge ( again ), and nataliia usacheva. extra special thanks to mari mower, who kindly contributed several of her handmade pieces for use in our “ dummy ” shop. finally, thanks to the etsy itself, for enabling craftspeople the world over to make a living by selling their work online. on a personal note, many thanks and much love to my beautiful and brilliant daughter, heidi welsh ; to my darling husband, olivier boisson ; to my incredible parents, barb and steve shoup ; to my wonderful sister, jenny shoup ; to my delightful brother - in - law, jim plant ; and to my crazy - cool nephew, jake plant. i love you all so much it makes me wheezy sometimes. kate gatski : thanks foremost to my brilliant coauthor kate shoup. writing this book was a snap, thanks to you! thank you to susan christophersen for her steadfast work and to jennifer yee for making the process simple and smooth. thanks to ben for picking up the slack while i worked on the book. and to ivan, hazel, and evelyn, the best creators i ’ ve ever known : you ’ re my inspiration! publisher ’ s acknowledgments senior acquisitions editor : jennifer yee project manager and copy editor : susan - kate christophersen technical editor : katie sandbridge proofreader : debbye butler production editor : mohammed zafar ali cover image : © ilona nagy / getty images take dummies with you everywhere you go! go to our website like us on facebook follow us on twitter watch us on youtube join us on linkedin pin us on pinterest subscribe to our newsletter create your own dummies book cover wiley end user license agreement go to www. wiley. com / go / eula to access wiley ’ s ebook eula.