search for anything sign in seller handbook latest articles getting started growing your business seller stories site updates april 9, 2025 | 4 minute read resources and funding opportunities for sellers in the us discover tools and resources for sellers supported by the etsy uplift fund, which partners with nonprofits working to create paths to entrepreneurship in the creative economy. by etsy staff want to open your own etsy shop? create your shop today! learn more owning your own business is an important, fulfilling pathway to economic independence. but many face significant barriers to entrepreneurship, including a lack of digital education and training and limited access to money to get started or grow. that ’ s why in 2021, we launched the etsy uplift fund, which partners with nonprofits to create paths to entrepreneurship for makers from all backgrounds. in addition to etsy ’ s contributions to the fund, we ’ ve been especially moved by our buyers ’ excitement to support small businesses. in 2023 alone, us buyers elected to donate the change on their orders more than 4 million times — enabling us to distribute approximately $ 3. 55 million in grants during the same year. this year, we ’ re continuing to partner with organizations that are working to lower barriers to entrepreneurship and create opportunities for creative small business owners. read on to learn more about these programs and how to apply. artisan entrepreneurs academy allies for community business is a community development financial institution offering capital, coaching support, and connections to small businesses throughout the chicago metropolitan area and beyond. their artisan entrepreneurs academy, launched as a result of support from etsy ’ s uplift fund, will offer a 6 week virtual training program, along with small group learning sessions, coaching services, and $ 5k in grant funding to creative small businesses in illinois and indiana. applications for the current program are open march 25 - april 25, 2025. learn more creative business boost initiative with support from etsy ’ s uplift fund, the creative business boost initiative is designed to support creative entrepreneurs! presented by hello alice and the global entrepreneurship network ( gen ), the program will provide one hundred selected creative entrepreneurs with a $ 5, 000 grant and access to an exclusive business boost camp coaching program, helping recipients access the capital and resources they need for growth and continued success. applications for the current program are open march 31 - may 9, 2025. learn more creators ’ momentum business accelerator accion opportunity fund designed the creators ’ momentum business accelerator, fueled by support from etsy ’ s uplift fund, to provide entrepreneurs who contribute to the creative economy with meaningful learning and networking opportunities, along with grant capital to spark their business growth. the creators ’ momentum business accelerator is an eight - week virtual program designed to provide creative entrepreneurs with knowledge and tools they need to take their businesses to the next level. applications for the current program are open april 9 - may 2, 2025. learn more dreamcreative powered by etsy ' s uplift fund, dreamcreative from dreamspring offers personalized funding solutions and complimentary business education crafted specifically for creatives in the united states. from blogs on managing cash flow to tools on flexible underwriting for loans for creative businesses, dreamcreative offers free online resources and education materials tailored to the needs of creative entrepreneurs. for those in need of capital, loans and lines of credit can be used for business - related expenses used to start or grow your creative business — including purchasing equipment, buying inventory and supplies, operational expenses related to a project, and more! learn more altcap with support from etsy ’ s uplift fund, the artcap microloan fund for artists at altcap provides microloans for artists and creative entrepreneurs in america ’ s heartland, particularly those based in kansas, missouri, and texas. learn more kiva kiva provides access to support services and crowdfunded zero interest and zero fee loans, for creative small businesses across the united states. learn more nest makers future fund the nest makers future fund is a financial readiness and capital access program designed to connect makers and small business leaders with the coaching, funding, and peer support they need to achieve their financial goals and grow their craft businesses. applications for this program are currently closed. * the uplift fund is held by brooklyn org, a 501 ( c ) ( 3 ) that distributes funds to select nonprofits across the us. etsy doesn ’ t profit from money donated to the uplift fund. words by etsy staff latest articles the ultimate guide to etsy policy learn why policies are created, what considerations to keep in mind to avoid listing removals, and how we ’ re working to increase transparency. read now how we create policies at etsy get a behind - the - scenes look at how we develop and enforce our house rules. read now 4 policy best practices when listing items on etsy understand what to keep in mind when listing your items, along with actions you can take to avoid policy missteps. read now 7 essentials for exceptional customer service communication is a vital skill for any online business. get tips from an etsy expert and experienced sellers, plus customizable message reply templates. read now get free online marketing tips and resources delivered directly to your inbox you @ email. com subscribe yes! send me exclusive offers, unique gift ideas, and personalized tips for shopping and selling on etsy. enter your email subscribe etsy is powered by 100 % renewable electricity. shop sell about help gift cards sell on etsy etsy, inc. help center etsy registry teams policies privacy settings sitemap forums investors etsy blog affiliates & creators careers etsy united kingdom press etsy germany impact etsy canada download the etsy app united states | english ( us ) | $ ( usd ) © 2025 etsy, inc. terms of use privacy interest - based ads local shops regions