search for anything sign in seller handbook latest articles getting started growing your business seller stories site updates january 1, 2020 | 3 minute read the ultimate guide to product photography learn everything you need to know about how to take photos that get shoppers to click and buy, including tips on lighting, shooting, editing, and more. by etsy staff want to open your own etsy shop? create your shop today! learn more chapter 1 : why product photography is important learn why creating great product images is the most important step to selling online. chapter 2 : 7 essential types of product photos there are many ways to show off your product ' s best features. find out which types of photos work best for your product. chapter 3 : choosing your camera and equipment what ' s the best equipment for you? learn how to select the right tools for your photo shoot. chapter 4 : how to build a diy photography light box learn how to create your own light box to shoot product photos at home. chapter 5 : getting to know your camera new to photography? learn the basics about various camera modes and settings. chapter 6 : how to shoot your products from lighting your product to framing your shot, get step - by - step instructions on how to do a successful photo shoot. chapter 7 : ( case study ) taking photographs with a phone shooting with a smartphone has its advantages — and its disadvantages. read how one business owner learned to make it work for her business. chapter 8 : how to style product photos learn how to use styling, props, models, and seasonal touches to make your product photos pop. chapter 9 : ( case study ) how to photograph vintage and one - of - a - kind items read how two vintage sellers developed a system to efficiently photograph their unique finds. chapter 10 : how to photograph challenging items whether you sell jewelry, artwork, furniture, clothing, or vintage items, find out how to get the best shots. chapter 11 : ( case study ) how to photograph jewelry capturing that sparkle can sometimes be difficult. read how one jewelry designer tackled the problem for her business. chapter 12 : how to edit your product photos a little editing can go a long way when it comes to your product photos. learn about photo editing tools and techniques. chapter 13 : 5 common photography mistakes could lackluster product photos be hurting your sales? find out how to avoid the most common pitfalls. chapter 14 : product photography checklist planning your photo shoot? use this handy checklist to take great product photos that sell. return to the ultimate guide to starting an etsy shop etsy is here for you when you need us. find live 24 / 7 support in the help center, or for some sellers, right in shop manager. words by etsy staff latest articles the ultimate guide to etsy policy learn why policies are created, what considerations to keep in mind to avoid listing removals, and how we ’ re working to increase transparency. read now how we create policies at etsy get a behind - the - scenes look at how we develop and enforce our house rules. read now 4 policy best practices when listing items on etsy understand what to keep in mind when listing your items, along with actions you can take to avoid policy missteps. read now 7 essentials for exceptional customer service communication is a vital skill for any online business. get tips from an etsy expert and experienced sellers, plus customizable message reply templates. read now get free online marketing tips and resources delivered directly to your inbox you @ email. com subscribe yes! send me exclusive offers, unique gift ideas, and personalized tips for shopping and selling on etsy. enter your email subscribe etsy is powered by 100 % renewable electricity. shop sell about help gift cards sell on etsy etsy, inc. help center etsy registry teams policies privacy settings sitemap forums investors etsy blog affiliates & creators careers etsy united kingdom press etsy germany impact etsy canada download the etsy app united states | english ( us ) | $ ( usd ) © 2025 etsy, inc. terms of use privacy interest - based ads local shops regions