search for anything sign in seller handbook latest articles getting started growing your business seller stories site updates january 1, 2020 | 11 minute read top tips for choosing your etsy shop name your etsy shop name is the foundation for your brand. check out these tips on choosing a name that will work for your business. by taylor combs want to open your own etsy shop? create your shop today! learn more choosing a shop name is the first step to building a strong brand. your etsy shop name can help shoppers immediately recognize your business as well as communicate the style of your shop or what you sell, says wynne renz, a copywriter at etsy who ' s also worked with brands to name new products and businesses. read on for tips on brainstorming and choosing a name that will fit your business now and into the future. brainstorming your etsy shop name you can find inspiration for your shop name all around you. look at other businesses, on etsy and elsewhere, and identify what you like or don ’ t like about their names. how do they make you feel? are they easy to remember? business names can fall into many categories, but looking at these popular types is a good starting point : suggestive descriptive names you can think of these names like a formula : a word or phrase that expresses the vibe or feeling you want your brand to evoke added to descriptive words that make it clear what you sell. a few examples on etsy : urban cheesecraft, waterstone succulents, delirium decor, morning ritual jewelry. choose suggestive words that reflect your style. if your items are elegant, use words that have that feeling. if your items are quirky or clever, think of words that have that vibe. let your own unique point of view as an artist or curator shine through in everything about your shop, especially your name! one benefit of these kinds of names is that shoppers can quickly understand what you sell. if you ' re selling a very specific product or supply, putting those words or phrases in your shop name might help your shop appear in searches for those terms on etsy and the web. one potential disadvantage to this kind of name : if your products change, this kind of name could be more difficult to adapt. for example, if you call your shop beautiful bed linens, the name won ’ t make much sense if you later decide to sell tea towels and kitchen accessories. abstract names these kinds of names let you really flex your creative muscle to create a word or phrase that will identify your shop. they can be uncommon words — wynne finds inspiration by looking at the names of plants and animals, foreign language words, and musical instruments — or you can coin a new word for your shop name by combining two words together. an interesting word or phrase that ' s meaningful to you can add a bit of history and a point of interest to your shop ’ s story. a major advantage of abstract names is that they will likely be totally unique to your business, making them easier for customers to search online. some examples on etsy : avrocomy, artemer, littionary. your name using your own name as your shop name is also an option, and it gives you some flexibility to grow your product line. eponymous shops will always be unique to you and are general enough to allow you to explore different kinds of products and aesthetics as your shop grows. one downside is that shoppers can ’ t quickly determine what you sell. if your name isn ' t available, try adding " studio, " " co, " " inc, " " workshop " or another word. some examples on etsy : lisa rupp design, amelie mancini, maryanne moodie. keep in mind : your shop name is different from your etsy username, and you shouldn ’ t think of it like a username or nickname. “ think about your etsy shop name in the context of your whole business, ” wynne says. “ make it something you ’ d be comfortable printing on a business card. ” arounna khounnoraj and john booth of toronto, canada - based accessories shop bookhou combined their last names to create a new word, pronounced “ boo - koh, ” to use as their shop name. the couple purposefully chose a more ambiguous name, because when they started on etsy, they weren ’ t sure what they would sell. if you ’ re stumped when trying to brainstorm words or phrases that could become part of your etsy shop name, wynne recommends making a list of the attributes you want your business to be associated with. maybe you want your brand to feel family - friendly, colorful, and trendy. think about words that are associated with these attributes and start making a list. look up the words on your list in a thesaurus to get even more ideas to add to your list. “ spend 70 % of your time exploring and 30 % of your time editing down your options, ” wynne recommends. “ you ’ ll need a lot of options to pick from in order to avoid cliches and dig down to the really original ideas. ” a list of backup options will also come in handy if the shop name you settle on is unavailable. kristin malaer chose words with personal meaning when naming carriage oak cottage, her raleigh, north carolina - based shop. " carriage " and " oak " are names of streets she lived on, and " cottage " is a reference to the beach cottage where she stayed with her grandparents as a child. photo by carriage oak cottage put your etsy shop name to the test once you have some names you ’ re excited about, it ’ s time to do a little research. checking off the things on this list before you commit to a shop name can save you headaches later. check on etsy first just googling or searching on etsy for a shop name is not enough. to find out whether your desired name is available on etsy, you have to type it in during the shop creation process and click “ check availability. ” it can be frustrating to discover that the name you want to use is not available, and you might be wondering why you can ’ t use a name when you can see that there are no open shops using that name. shop names on etsy are entirely unique, so once a name has been used — either as a shop name or username — it can ’ t be used again. etsy does this to prevent confusion and to protect the privacy of you and your customers. if you ’ re coming to etsy with an established name, think about how you can make variations on the name to remain consistent. try adding words like “ studio ” or “ design, ” or using a shortened version of your existing business name. google it search for your intended name on google. searching to see what ’ s already out there can help you determine if other businesses or websites are already using your name. the more unique the name, the easier it will be for your business to become associated with it. avoid using generic names or terms that will be more difficult to tie to your brand. get some feedback ask friends or family who are in your target market what they think about your name. etsy teams can be a great place to get advice and feedback as well. ask others what kind of brand they think a business with this name would have or what they would sell. know the law some words and names are trademarked, so do your homework first to avoid a possible conflict later. for instance, in the us, you can search the database of trademarked names on the united states patent and trademark office ' s website. outside of the us, check with your local trademark authority. consider consulting an attorney if you need specialized advice in this area. get social using the same name everywhere — your etsy shop name, in your shop banner and shop icon, on your blog, and on any social media sites you use ( facebook, instagram, etc. ) — makes it easier for buyers to find your shop. check to see if the names you ’ ve come up with are available on all the major social channels before committing to a name. think globally on etsy, your shop will reach people around the world. before committing to a name, do a little research to see how the words translate in other languages or what negative connotations they might have. wynne recommends searching on bing, which searches globally, instead of on google, which knows your location, to get a more global view. " i chose my shop name because i have always been fascinated with curiosity cabinets, natural wonders, and unusual little things, " says heather dean of her los angeles, california - based shop curiosity cabinet. " i try to stock my shop with lots of animal - and nature - themed items like flowers and seashells, and interesting textures with pretty, shiny, sparkly things mixed in as well. " photo by curiosity cabinet make your etsy shop name memorable a good shop name should be easy for people to understand and remember. these tips will help you choose a memorable name : spelling counts pick an etsy shop name that ' s easy to pronounce and spell. the former helps shoppers remember your name, the latter makes it easy to find you again. your etsy shop name can ' t be longer than 20 characters and can ’ t contain spaces or punctuation. take the shop name memory test sit down with a piece of paper and pen and ask yourself : “ what shops do i know the name of on etsy? ” it doesn ’ t have to be your favorite shop or any reason other than the fact that you remembered the name. this is key. after you have your list of remembered names, take a look at them. why are they so memorable? after asking yourself these questions, learn from what these shop owners have done to create your own memorable name. capitalize multiple words once you have decided on a name for your shop, take advantage of capital letters to make the appearance of your shop name more legible. if you have more than one word in your shop name, create visual separation by making the first letters of each word capital letters instead of lowercase. for example, “ houseofbalticlinen ” is easier to read than “ houseofbalticlinen. ” for more tips on creating a memorable shop, read 5 savvy market research methods. done is better than perfect hopefully, these tips help you brainstorm a name for your shop that ’ s uniquely yours, but if you ’ re feeling stuck or not totally happy with your name, remember that it is possible to change it later. you can change your shop name as many times as you like before you open your shop for business. after you ’ ve opened your shop, you can instantly change your name one time. if you need to change it again in the future, submit a request to etsy support. if you ’ re considering changing your etsy shop name, read how to change course gracefully for advice on navigating change in your shop. learn more about changing your shop name. be sure to subscribe to our seller email list for important updates about your etsy shop, new features, and personalized tips to help grow your business. return to the ultimate guide to starting an etsy shop etsy is here for you when you need us. find live 24 / 7 support in the help center, or for some sellers, right in shop manager. words by taylor combs latest articles the ultimate guide to etsy policy learn why policies are created, what considerations to keep in mind to avoid listing removals, and how we ’ re working to increase transparency. read now how we create policies at etsy get a behind - the - scenes look at how we develop and enforce our house rules. read now 4 policy best practices when listing items on etsy understand what to keep in mind when listing your items, along with actions you can take to avoid policy missteps. read now 7 essentials for exceptional customer service communication is a vital skill for any online business. get tips from an etsy expert and experienced sellers, plus customizable message reply templates. read now get free online marketing tips and resources delivered directly to your inbox you @ email. com subscribe yes! send me exclusive offers, unique gift ideas, and personalized tips for shopping and selling on etsy. enter your email subscribe etsy is powered by 100 % renewable electricity. shop sell about help gift cards sell on etsy etsy, inc. help center etsy registry teams policies privacy settings sitemap forums investors etsy blog affiliates & creators careers etsy united kingdom press etsy germany impact etsy canada download the etsy app united states | english ( us ) | $ ( usd ) © 2025 etsy, inc. terms of use privacy interest - based ads local shops regions